---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2020-11-29
---

##	entrepreneur memes are the worst advice ever and it's driving me mad  
I'm saddened by the number of followers on these accounts...  
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0pysgBM94YI)  
[Video (19.1MB .webm) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/j1rgxxyxlew3jb8/2020-11-29-memes.webm?dl=1)  
[Audio (1.7MB .opus) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/3r3dz9pka668s9f/2020-11-29-memes.opus?dl=1)  
[Subtitles: (13.2kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/u0hzdoi9gv1w0zp/2020-11-29-memes.vtt?dl=1)

I'm doing something a bit different today, since we're getting ready to move out of this rotting tinderbox into a home a bit more fitting.
Here's hoping we get a place with enough room for me to have a recording area separate from my friggin' bedroom this time.

(LetThatSinkIn)
"Being Broke is Hard.  
Becoming Rich is Hard.  
Choose your Hard.  
LET THAT SINK IN."  
Uh... man, that's...not how that works...  
Straight up, being broke is hard, but if you're broke, becoming rich is significantly harder.  
This is just shaming people who don't have the right privileges to become rich.  
Escaping poverty is way harder than this lets on.  
[According to PEW Research,][01] (01)  
70% of people who were born in or live in lower class environments  
or abject poverty never even make it to the mythical Middle Class,  
much less the upper classes, of which a measly 4% have a chance.  
Being broke or poor is exceptionally hard,  
especially since expenses such as bills continue to grow with rapidly increasing privatization of public services,  
and a shrinking Real Wage (wages adjusted for inflation over time.)  
Not to mention "overcharge protection" fees and cancellation fees when you run out of money.  
Being poor is frickin expensive!  
I don't have percentages there,  
but it's hard to really compare Becoming Rich and Being Broke/Poor,  
especially when framing it as a CHOICE.  
What's next?  

01-ShitHardDoAnyway  
"Shit is hard.  
Do it anyway."  
I just said... good lord.  
Yes, it's probably better to just do things instead of hanging out doing nothing.  
Being productive is preferable, though in context with the other pic in this post, just no.  
Next.  

01-DontCare  
"Rule #1:  
I don't care what they think."  
I... what is this even supposed to be saying?  
Be different?  
Being different, standing out, can have dire consequences.  
I am disabled, and I'm also intersex,  
so I tend to stand out like a sore thumb,  
and you know what that gets me?  
Not jobs, that's for sure.  
It's nearly impossible for me to get a waged job that fits my disability because I'm so incredibly different.  
This just doesn't work.  
Next.  

01-FixYourself  
"When no one is there to fix you, you fix yourself."  
Self reliance is... good?  
okay?  
I mean, it's a good idea to learn self-reliance for when nobody is around to help you,  
but it would be much better to build a community around you to help when you metaphorically fall.  
One of my favorite songs is "Lean on Me" because the message is
"help each-other" instead of pretending this bootstraps crap is helpful NEXT  

01-OldNowShitSucks  
"The older I get, the less I desire to feel included, understood or accepted."  
You're missing an oxford comma, so this is invalid!  
NEXT!  
just kidding.  
Let's talk about this toxic crap.  
This sounds like someone being regularly alienated by society, honestly.  
It's easy to become jaded under our current economic and social modes,   
but that doesn't mean we should lean into that alienation.  
It's much healthier to seek community,  
seek acceptance, seek understanding, and seek inclusion.  
It's one of the biggest things we need to do in making our society better,  
because alienation is not just a nebulous bad,  
it's actively unhealthy,  
and our society encourages it.  
Okay, NEXT!

01-CallToAction  
Aww geez, another account?  
Okay, let's check it out  

01-account2  
Huh. That's a very similar ico-  

01-account2-BeCareful  
"Be Careful Who You Trust"  
I mean, kinda?  
But just...  
Yikes.  
That's just straight up discouraging interpersonal connection.  
That's a real bad move!  
NEXT!  

02-OtherPeoplesOpinions  
Well that's an interesting picture.  
We've got a guy smokin' a cig, with like...  
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, EIGHT  
EIGHT friggin' doggos strapped to his waist.  
"Other People's Opinions Don't Pay The Bills"  
Yeah sure but like, look at the people in the background?  
I'm the girl in the jeans with the big bag like "uh, what is this guy doing?"  
That smile, just, perfecto.  
Next.  

03-Iceburg  
"This is Instagram"  
I mean, this is pretty accurate.  
Iceburgs are smaller above than below because of melting,  
so what you can see above the water is greatly outpaced by what's below.  
What's above, here.  
Followers, verification, likes slash comments, and money.  
Money?  
Okay, apparently people make money on instagram.  
Didn't really know that.  
What is below...  
we've got a to-do list, relationship, goals... not relationship goals, relationship and goals.  
Content strategy, consistency, networking, investments, strategy, time, and expertise? ,,
That... doesn't seem right.  
I can tell the content strategy pretty easily: post wacky crap and say it's motivational.  
We can see the consistency with which these accounts post, it's right there on the page.  
They post every dang day... wish I could do that.  
Time?  
We can't see time?  
I guess that's technically true.  
It's the only non-physical dimension I know of,  
so that is not technically wrong, but it is kinda wrong.  
the amount of time spent on these is clearly "none"  
NEXT!  

04-FuckFriends  
"Fuck friends"  
'Go to that concert by yourself,  
don't wait on people,  
do what you want to do,  
go to the park by yourself,  
go eat at that restaurant you keep saying you want to go to,  
go try all those crazy shits you always wanted to try,  
don't wait on people... and if your friends don't want to do it... do it anyways.'

Man, that's a long post, finance legends, but holy crap, that's toxic.  
I think I get what Gary Vee here is trying to communicate, but good lord that's poorly worded.  
I think he's trying to say that you shouldn't keep yourself from doing things  
just because you don't have someone with whom to do that thing?  
But it comes off as cocky, like "you don't need friends" especially given the header.  
I need to do a video on Gary Vee and people like him at some point, may make some kind of parody.  
Who knows?  
last one went so well... 78%  

05-SleepDeprivation  
"don't call me lucky if when you're sleeping, I'm working"  
Ah yes, crunch.  
Crunch is good, right?  
Late nights, always being "on your grind", that kind of stuff,  
so good for your mental health and, actually, your career outcomes right?  

[From the abstract of this study on time spent working by Argyro Avgoustaki][02] (02)  
(I probably butchered that and I apologize)  
at the ESCP Europe Business School:  
"greater work effort relates strongly to reduced well-being and modestly to inferior career-related outcomes,  
while discretion may attenuate these adverse implications.  
Even with discretion, work intensity generally is a stronger predictor of unfavorable outcomes than overtime work."  

So yeah, this sentiment is really insidious and gross to be honest.  
NEXT!

06-WeekendsSuck  
"WEEKENDS SUCK!  
I hate 3-day weekends.  
I want monday to come.  
That's how much I love what I do.  
If that's not your mentality and you dread Monday (apostrophe) s, stop and get another job.  
That's not healthy for you.  
-Dana White"  

Okay, good lord.  
so many wordy posts.  
Just stop working at your current job and go get a new one.  
You know, that thing that is really easy to do?  
Getting a job?  
Yeah, I'm sure that's possible under our current systems, just getting a new job.  
[more than 78 million people in America, that's 31% of working-age adults, participate in the "gig economy"][03] (03)  
because their job doesn't pay enough for them to get by,  
or they don't have a job otherwise.  
Do you think those people don't want to find a new job?  
They really do, but there's not enough accessible work for them to GET a new job, so buzz off Dana.  
Next.  

07-RichFriends  
"You need to hang out with people who fit your future not your history."

punctuation, please, geez.  
So, only hang out with rich people?  
That must be easier for other people to do, but I don't personally know any rich folks.  
All the rich folks I have access to are not really interested in helping me escape my circumstance.  
It's absolutely absurd to suggest the working people of America can just...  
hang out with Bill Gates and Elon Musk.  
Yeah, super silly.  
This isn't inspiring, it's confusing, and just...  
hoo boy.  
These accounts aren't really providing healthy motivation,  
they're basically trying to get you in the mindset of the market,  
on which my stance has been made clear.  
To say these ideas are toxic is accurate, but understated.  
They're insidious, insufferable, and insulting to the intelligence of the reader, to be honest.  
If you need motivation, I've got your back.  

**clears throat

There is more to life than money and fame, there's more to life than fear and shame.  
Your hobby isn't just a hobby, it's a form of self-expression,  
so make sure you have a hobby when your paying job is done.  
Our society pushes us to work in unhealthy ways under threat of starvation and homelessness,  
and that drives us to be the hardest workers in modern history.  
If you hate your job, hate your side job, hate working every day, it's not just you!  

[The average workweek is catching more hours,][04] (04)  
some up to a hundred eleven a week,  
that's four fourty four a month, or more,  
so don't let them call you lazy!
We're the hardest working generations this country has ever seen,  
and you will get what needs to be done, done.
When we work together, we work better,  
we work harder, we get more done,  
so communicate with communities and get that work complete!  
You're worth paying more than you're being paid,  
so you need to collectivize your efforts in negotiation for higher wages and better working conditions,  
because you cannot go it alone, and every worker deserves better!  
Be a part of your community, and you will be victorious.  
WE will be victorious.  
WE cannot be stopped, so don't get in our way, world!  

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2020*

[01]: http://economy.money.cnn.com/2013/11/13/making-it-into-the-middle-class/  
[01: "Moving On Up" Why Do Some Americans Leave the Bottom of the Economic Ladder, but Not Others? (PEW Research)](http://web.archive.org/web/20131113172106/http://economy.money.cnn.com/2013/11/13/making-it-into-the-middle-class/)

[02]: https://openaccess.city.ac.uk/id/eprint/20071/1/avgoustaki_frankort_ILRR.pdf  
[02: "Implications of Work Effort and Discretion for Employee Well-Being and Career-Related Outcomes: An Integrative Assesment" - Avgoustaki @ ESCP and Frankort @ Cass](https://archive.is/k7RsL)

[03]: https://www.federalreserve.gov/consumerscommunities/files/SHED-2019-codebook-supplemental-survey-july-2020.pdf  
[03: "SHED survey, July 2020" Federal Reserve](https://archive.is/ndbt9)

[04]: https://www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.t20.htm  
[04: Labor Statistics for Oct 2019- Oct 2020](https://archive.is/A4vHw)
