---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2020-10-03
headline: Inclusion vs Reduction, Class and Identity
summary: Is Talking about Class Warfare Anti-Progress?
---
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Usmj0c7b5mM)  
[Video (7.5MB .webm) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/0icn7079zb62l1r/2020-10-03-class.webm?dl=1)  
[Audio (375.5kB .opus) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/5xfiilo4co0ymk7/2020-10-03-class.opus?dl=1)  

Holism asks us to accept  
that ALL workers deal with oppression.  
That means not excluding people who are exploited by the system, no matter what.  
Veterans.  
Voters.  
Vandals.  
Vagrants.  
All of us who work are workers and cannot be ignored.  
This analysis has caught me accusations of "Class Reductionism."  
Class Reductionism is the idea that social issues are distractions from a worker's movement.  
Which I do not believe.  
so let's talk.  

### Invocation for Workers

Blessed we, of many colors, many creeds and each-other  
Workers, broken backs of millions trying to survive, we see  
the owners say disabled, poor, and retirees are welfare queens  
and when these people can not work in ways that make "a living"  
they are made to work for free.  
A Living.  
We are working for our lives,  
it doesn't matter what you are,  
you are one thing inside
you are a worker, stand proud in that label,  
cast aside your prejudices,  
talk about what really scares you
talk about why you are angry,  
talk about anything but party politics,  
because that way lies madness and let's say "inefficiency."  
Unity starts with compassion for the plight of others,  
and that starts with brave acts of vulnerability.

You, me, we of many colors, many creeds and each-other  
if you're of color, If you are queer, if you're a woman, or y'ain't from here,  
if you're a worker, you have bosses who couldn't care less for your safety.  
you're dealing with landlords who want to kick you out.  
you're dealing with food insecurity.  
medical gaps, payday loans, and you know who is included in those?  
White, straight cis men who were born here.  
Yes, this means you too, Steven! (just to mess with the stevens out there)  
You're not exempt from oppression just 'cause you don't have to deal  
with getting shot by cops at traffic stops because you look threatening.  
raped because they put you in the wrong jail.  
denied birth control and HPV protection because your boss is a fundamentalist,  
or locked cages at the border for the crime of wanting to live,  
and dying in the process.

Yes, that's all depressing, I know, it's raw, it's hard, it's blunt, it's angry.  
It's annoying trying to parse this talk of "class reductionism"  
it's class consciousness, not reduction of those within  
it's easy to perceive a monster where there lies uncertainty  
Blessed we of many colors, many creeds, and each-other  
join your hands with one another, join us all in unity  
blessed we, united workers, stand in solidarity.  

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2020*
