---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2020-03-24
headline: Catastrophic Systemic Collapse
summary: The Deep, Unyielding Terror of and for Humanity.
---
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y2Z3VvSowwY)  
[Video (13.5MB .webm) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/2op7tzomozljejm/2020-03-24-collapse.webm?dl=1)  
[Audio (836.1kB .opus) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/i23dyvghcn4mwqp/2020-03-24-collapse.opus?dl=1)  
[Subtitles: (8.2kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/zaux948ox4xbotz/2020-03-24-collapse.vtt?dl=1)

Take note, your place, your state, your station.  
we begin with trepidation.  
Do you feel what I feel?  
you've lived and breathed upon this world for years upon years  
upon ears that refuse to listen, your pain remains unspoken.  
So let us be your voice, to speak  
of this deep, unyielding terror  

Around us, the world burns.  
bright, though the shadows stretch  
into the night, fleeing from the forest which  
we cannot see for the flaming trees before us  

Before Us, there were many who made  
mistakes and permutations of those made  
by those before them, whose mistakes have wrought  
carnage upon us, we, who stare down the forked road.  
oblivion and struggle, do these paths collide?  
if so, what happens to us?  

What will happen to us?  
or will we happen to history?  
does the path of struggle, the path of strife, lead us on to paradise?  
or are we broken, doomed to fall  
with none to read our markings on the walls we built between us?  

between us...  
what are these walls between us?  
packed so close together there's no room for connective tissue,  
separated by walls of thought  
of looking away when our neighbors fall to the demon  
walls of thought, of prejudice,  
a facade constructed to keep us apart  
to keep us in hell 'til we drown  
let's tear them all down  
when we see the horizon, when we join hand in hand  
we can face down this demon  
down to our last stand  
the temperature is rising in the ocean as the northwinds chill our bones  
and words will get us so far 'til we turn to sticks and stones  
believe in us, as we do you, to change, to turn the tides  
so break those walls between us down, or we might not survive...  

**lighting/costume darken  

like, seriously for a moment,  
why the fuck are we allowing a hundred companies to cause nearly three quarters of all pollution on earth?  
Plastic straws are not the problem  
neither are the bags  
you have to drop these liberal notions, simple fixes through osmosis  
"vote with your wallet!"  
give me a break  
your money is nothing to billionaires  
"just recycle!"  
that might help, but  
must we refuse to reduce and reuse?  
"Gates or Musk or Soros will save us!"  
If we need a savior with billions of dollars, there's billions of us and we ARE the dollars they hold!  
The wealth of nations isn't that dross, not CEOs, CFOs, bankers, or bosses  
It's us who make the power they hold, it's us who keep them plated in gold  
it's US who make this planet work, it's us who hold the keys  
to power, two powers, a system side-by-side  
we can build tomorrow with the ashes of today.  
WE can make this world a place where all of us can live!  
WE CAN do more to save ourselves!  
IF WE TRY, WE CAN SURVIVE!  
WE, who stare down the forked road  
oblivion and struggle, which do you choose?  

DO WE HAVE A CHOICE!?  
I think it's quite clear!  
Stagnation is suicide for this fair species,  
and for many across this beautiful marble.  

WE MUST BUILD POWER!  
search for and create the systems we need to survive,  
the ones we have right now are failing, starving, and killing us.  
Food, Medicine, Housing, Community Defense, Transportation, any place our government has failed,  
WE have to pick up the slack because we can't hang this parasite with a limp rope.  
we are immigrants to a hostile nation, a government in disrepair,  
a society in physical decline because of the virus infecting it.  
We have to build our own systems so when the roof falls down,  
we can at least save those with the sense to not be millionaires or billionaires,  
whose billions are built up on the backs of people they despise.

I remember back in bible study,  
being told that we are the keepers of this earth,  
and that a camel passing through the eye of a needle would be a simple task,  
in comparison to a rich man passing through the gates of heaven.  
I remember the book of James, 5:1-6, feel free to read along at home.  

James 5:1-6
COME NOW, you RICH, WEEP and HOWL at the miseries that are to befall you.  
Your riches have rusted to dust and your glamorous robes have become dull and moth-eaten,  
they have become corrupted, and their corruption will eat at your soul like tongues of cleansing flame.  
You have hoarded WEALTH in the final days.  
HEAR NOW, the cries of the workers in the fields, the workshops, the mills  
THEY, to whom you have denied wage, are crying out against you,  
and their cries have reached the ear of the lord of hosts.  
You have lived on in luxury, in self-indulgence, you have fattened your heart in a day of slaughter.  
You have condemned those most willing to compromise, for they did not fight back.  
Those left behind care not for your words, and may just come for your heads.  

BUILD POWER, my friends!  
Make a NEW society while we still have support from the old!  
BREAK the will of the capitalists, and take back what is OURS!  

Ahoy hoy, I generally don't make something this earnest,  
but I can't really express what troubles we face with graphs and statistics and numbers and forecasts,  
because that's not what matters to most people.  
Most people do not care about numbers.  
Most people care about how things make them feel,  
so I thought I might as well start by sharing how this catastrophic systemic collapse is bearing down on my soul,  
as I said, "the deep, unyielding terror."  
it doesn't matter what you call it, global warming, climate change,  
an increased trend of extreme weather events, the feeling is the same.

Something's wrong.
We.
Should fix it.
