---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2020-06-23
---

##	Do Police Protect and Serve? (Problem 11)  
A Brief History of Police Violence through American History  
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9nXCO63ueZI)  
[Video (48.3MB .webm) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/j4wfk35qjspjem5/2020-06-23-police.webm?dl=1)  
[Audio (2.4MB .opus) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/anfxvm8tgcijlhg/2020-06-23-police.opus?dl=1)  
[Subtitles: (27.3kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ux8luab4fyn23ha/2020-06-23-police.vtt?dl=1)  
Content Advisory: Depressing Violence

We know how they look  
They're dangerous  
Their colors are all clear to us  
The criminals will always fit just one simple descriptor:  

Cop  

Justice comes when we end that which was birthed  
from the ending of slave patrols to carry out the same mission,  
that which protects property in service of the rich.

Every riot is incited,  
cops will break your windows too.  
This is not new.  
This is not different.  
This is The Problem.  
This... is America.

I've been watching the protests being turned into riots over and over,  
and I'm hearing politicians say  
"this isn't the legacy of civil rights in america" or  
"the protesters should be constructive" as if that's how this works.  
Look, John Lewis, I love ya.  
You did some very good work with non-violent protest against the state,  
and I appreciate the non-violent approach,  
but if non-violence doesn't carry the threat of rebellion,  
your protest means nothing.  
Sorry.  
I've seen people wonder aloud if this is what a police state looks like,  
and I do believe that's because of a definitional mismatch.

The State - The entity holding a monopoly on legitimized violence over a geographic region.  
and when The State is utilized through police, you have a...  
so yes, this is what a police state looks like,  
because we've been a police state for at very least a couple centuries if not longer.  
This institution is bad, it's just awful,  
and we're no longer being sheltered from it like some of us were (mostly white folks like myself)  
but if we look back through history,  
we will find some terrible things as usual,  
but that's why you come here right?

### Haymarket Haymakers

The extremely white-wash-named "Haymarket Affair"  
which I'll be referring to correctly as the Haymarket Massacre,  
is first on our timeline.  
Look, I have to start somewhere, and this isn't just about race.  
Don't worry your pretty little heads, uncomfortable white folks.  

[MAY THIRD, 1886, Chicago, IL.][01] (01)  
400 cops, Pinkerton private and city-employed public officers,  
were doing their normal duty of protecting people from being harassed by strikers.  
As the workday ended, however, the harassment became too much for the poor cops,  
and they fired on the crowd of strikers, killing at least 2, and injuring many.  
May 4th, a labor demonstration was peacefully taking place in response to the police violence,  
when the unthinkable happened!  
Well, unthinkable if you don't think about it.  
[At 10:30,][02] (02)  
the police showed up in force armed for combat,  
and ordered the immediate dispersal of the rallygoers,  
at which point a bomb was thrown in the path of the police,  
killing 1 and fatally wounding 6 others,  
to die during the ensuing hail of bullets.
During the melee,  
shots were fired both by protesters and the police,   
but mostly by the police.  
Most of the people,  
including the speakers,  
weren't armed.  
Even though the bomb was a day late,  
it was the Pinkertons who fired the first shots.
The Pinkertons, showing up in a day of mourning to find new stragglers to snuff out.  
This becomes a pattern.  
At the time, the anarchists holding the hours-long meeting beforehand,  
about the necessity of the 40 hour workweek, were blamed.
8 were arrested,  
of which 7 were given death sentences,  
2 of which were commuted,  
1 died by suicide,  
the other 4 were executed.

Knights of Labor signups were higher in the following summer than in their entire history at that point.  
This event very likely catalyzed the struggle between Labor and Capital  
to the point that the 40 hour workweek was established.  
The progeny of the bomb is still unclear,  
as there has been a long history of state infiltration of peaceable movements  
to incite riots and necessitate crackdown.

My mayor, Keisha Lance Bottoms,  
appears not to know of this history,  
or her place in it,  
so let's talk about the ones here in Atlanta as the next step on our timeline.

### Bad News, Bad Plays, and an Overall Bad Time

Not all riots come from good places, of course,  
there have been many instances in American history in which  
white folk felt emboldened by propaganda to go kill black folk.

[September 22nd, 1906,][03] (03)  
Newspapers in Atlanta, GA reported on 4 sexual assaults of white women,  
supposedly by black men,  
in sensationalist language that angered the white men of this fair city.

Sidebar:  
[A KKK play was on stage in Atlanta at the time.][04] (04)  
I wouldn't mention this, really, since it's Georgia?  
Ku Klux Klan Play could've been anything from a dry history of the klansmen to a chinsey musical.  
This, however, was neither of those.  
It bears the name of the book on which it was based,  
"The Clansman: A Historical Romance of the Ku Klux Klan."  
Not ringing a bell?  
The movie adaptation was much more popular, The Birth of a Nation.  
The one where the heroes lynch a black man for supposedly raping a white woman?  
I'm sure that has nothing to do with it...  

Anyway, on the night of those sensationalized and likely fabricated rape-of-a-white-woman charges against some black men...  
Alonzo Herndon's barbershop is frequently cited as the first attacked,  
but it's hard to really pinpoint the timeline of a riot in anything more than broad terms,  
especially with a dearth of contemporary reporting.
Black Atlantans were harrassed, beaten, and murdered starting that night,  
and by day, militias had arrived to assist in the slaughter.  
By the end of the next night, the National Guard had been called in by the mayor through the governor.  
There are some scattered reports that the National Guard took part in the violence,  
but unfortunately we don't have contemporary reporting as it was purged from the public memory until 2006.  
As such, [the number of reported dead is unreliable at best.][05] (05)  
2 white folks died for certain that night,  
and though 25 black folks were officially reported dead,  
the number of deaths has been reported as anywhere from 50 to 100.  
However, it isn't exactly an unfounded accusation.  

Keisha Lance Bottoms called Brian Kemp to order in the national guard, and all reporting shows...  

[GA National Guard kettling and firing tear gas into protesters][06] (06)  
Ex-Cop Ron Jones:  
"Immediately, you saw waves and waves and waves of National Guard begin to push those protesters in one direction,  
In the past the protesters have been able to escape, go down another road,  
before you know it they run into another wall of National Guardsmen,  
squeezing them so to speak and making several arrests there,  
and folks don't have a lot of places to run to but,  
it was the overwhelming force that was amazing to me tonight, {Aisha}"

Swing and a miss.  
She has claimed that
["this is not the legacy of civil rights in america"][07] (07)  
but unfortunately for her,  
that's hardly as true as she might like it to be.  
A couple days ago, Rayshard Brooks was shot by police.  
He was sleeping in his car because he had been drinking and didn't want a DUI or to hurt anybody.  
He offered to walk home instead of driving home because he didn't want to be in violation of anything or anybody.  
They shot him in the back 3 times.  
It has been ruled a homicide.  
So she fired the police chief.  
She increased funding to the police in her first day in office,  
and has been complicit in the attacks by police on protesters and random citizens alike.  
I do not give a damn about the firing or, as it's reported some places, resignation of the police chief.  
That's not The Problem.  
This... ain't it, chief.  

### Murder In The "Streets" of Ludlow

I really need to hammer something in about the national guard real quick.  
I see some folks wondering why the national guard might act like this,  
and it's saddening how clean their image is, even after things like the Ludlow Massacre.  
[We start in 1914, Ludlow, Colorado.][08] (08)  
In general, coal mining wasn't easy or safe.  
With a fatality rate of between 3 and 4 per thousand employed,  
you were certainly in more risk than most other jobs, but Colorado was something different.  
John D. Rockefeller Junior owned the Colorado Fuel and Iron company,  
which ran a mine in Ludlow, which is now a ghost town for soon-to-be obvious reasons.  
His mines, guarded by company owned guards, had a fatality rate of between 7 and 8 per thousand employed,  
and miners were housed in company-owned towns guarded by company owned guards.  
Those who even considered striking, discussed unionization,  
or had any kind of organized thought were kicked out of their homes  
with nothing but the clothes on their backs and a death warrant should they return.  
The company went so far as to hire strikebreakers from separate countries,  
with separate languages so the workers couldn't discuss any kind of organization.  
The United Mine Workers of America demanded better conditions for the workers,  
including enforcing the labor laws already on the books,  
and enforcing the other labor laws already on the books.  
The company declined.  
The United Mine Workers set up a tent city near by,  
and promised strikers they would have housing if they got kicked out for striking.  
and so the workers went on strike.  

Strikebreakers were brought in from across the globe to work the mines,  
and the strikers tried to stop them from getting to the mine.  
Baldwin-Felts Detectives were hired by the company to protect the strikebreakers,  
and if you remember Haymarket, "protect" was a low concern among the Pinkertons.  
These guys were basically supercharged Pinkertons.  
The tent city was sporadically riddled with machinegun fire from the Baldwin-Felts,  
occasionally killing, occasionally maiming the strikers in the tents.  
The strikers fought back.  
The national guard was called in.  
They found a strikebreaker's body on the railroad tracks...  
which was more troubling than the strikers bodies?  
They laid siege to the tent city until the colorado guard was out of money.  
I'm giving you a lot of detail here because the national guard of colorado was out of money,  
but they sure did have a lot of uniforms and a lot of people with guns and anti-union sentiments...

And here's the big point:  
The State will always Always ALWAYS side with private interests over public ones,  
they will ALWAYS side against you if there's money on the line,  
and there doesn't need to be prior agreement.  
They're on the same side already.  
So of course, the national guard left the Baldwin-Felts with the uniforms and ran away.  
April 20th, 1914.  
The worst 4/20 ever.  
National Guard uniformed mine guards,  
camp guards,  
and private dicks,  
[filled the tent city with machine gun fire,][09] (09)    
militiamen in national guard uniforms fired their rifles at strikers and their families,  
and torched many of the tents with the occupants trapped inside.  
The bodies of the strike leaders were left in plain view of passenger trains, clearly shot in the back.  
Railworkers begged for 3 days before the National Guard allowed them to arrange burial.  
75 is the official death count, but with all of the fire, and the... children, it's very likely higher.  
Some estimates put it up around 200, so it's anybody's guess what the actual number is.  
332 strikers were indicted for murder.  
10 guardsmen were court marshalled.  
Only one was found responsible of dishonorable conduct for shooting the strike leaders in the back.  
The bloodbath was bad press, and in a move echoed throughout the generations...  
Rockefeller called in Ivy Lee.  
Ivy Lee was a PR man, THE PR man, in fact.  
If you've seen limp declarations of solidarity from LEGO and LOreal and Listerine, you've seen Ivy Lee.  
Lee repaired Rockefeller's reputation to the public,  
and has picked up the nickname Poison Ivy Lee as a result of [all the damage he covered up.][10] (10)    
...  
I dunno, it's better than "Little Marco."

Regardless of whether Rockefeller's transformation to less-anti-worker-than-before was genuine or... not,  
the National Guard got no such transformation.

### Bedlam in Birmingham

May 11th, 1963, in the middle of the Birmingham Campaign at 8:08PM The Gaston Motel,  
where Martin Luther King Jr had been staying,  
reportedly received a death threat against King,  
and soon after, King left for Atlanta.

[2 hours, 22 minutes later,][11] (11)  
Birmingham police officers left from nearby Holy Family Hospital en route to King's brother's house.  
They had just gotten back from a Klan meeting that ended 15 minutes before,  
and 15 minutes later,  
a uniformed officer placed what the TSA would call a Suspicious Package on the porch of Alfred Daniel King.  
The resulting explosion destroyed the entire front of the house, as the occupants fled.  
An hour later, a car driving by MLK's room threw out a bomb  
that was loud enough to be heard across the entire town.  
The suspected bombers were never charged, tried, or prosecuted.  
The resulting wreckage is mind-boggling in peacetime,  
though the following day proved "peacetime" to be a misnomer.  

[Direct protests began outside the Gaston Motel,][12] (12)
with singing of We Will Overcome.  
Eventually 3 men retaliated against a police officer, planting a blade between his ribs.  
Not much reporting covers what happens between the beginning of the protest and the crackdown, so...  
at some time between "we will overcome" and "stab time" is when all hell broke loose.

Reporters showing up to the scene described fire being everywhere,  
a crowd of 2500 people,  
and a Birmingham Police Armored Vehicle driving down the street,  
spraying tear gas at protesters,  
accompanied in its imposition by a US Army Tank that has yet to be really explained?  
My theory is "private collector" because "tank" and "alabama" means "private collector."  
At 2:30AM, State Troopers arrived with submachine guns  
shooting at protesters and journalists alike to maintain order.  
This is something we are seeing in the current protest movement and subsequent police riots to this day,  
[journalists basically used as target practice in the midst of a protest in Minneapolis over the death of George Floyd.][13] (13)

Back in Birmingham, 50 were treated for wounds.  
The journalists and protesters took refuge in the Motel,  
but hell was really only partly broken loose.  

The National Guard was called in after the start of the riot by President Kennedy,  
citing that the... let's say black people, were the ones out of order.  
[Malcolm X strongly disagreed.][14] (14)  
I quote:  
"President Kennedy did not send troops to Alabama when dogs were biting black babies.  
He waited three weeks until the situation exploded.  
He then sent troops after the Negroes had demonstrated their ability to defend themselves.  
In his talk with Alabama editors,  
Kennedy did not urge that Negroes be treated right because it is the right thing to do.  
Instead, he said that if the Negroes aren't well treated the Muslims would become a threat.  
He urged a change not because it is right but because the world is watching this country.  
Kennedy is wrong because his motivation is wrong."  

I find it kinda hard to disagree.

The aftermath saw passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,  
much to the dismay of future libertarian conservatives and neo-feudalists.

It's at this point, I think we need to talk about Riots.

[The Strike Command was created in 1963][15] (15)  
to make sure National Guard forces were always on hand to deal with civil unrest.  
Not through de-escalation, but through unprecedented violence,  
what we would call war crimes on anything but American soil.  
It's hard to find the exact point at which "Riot Gear" was rolled out,  
but it's exclusively donned in response to peaceful protest, not in response to rioting.  
Showing up in riot gear to a peaceful protest is not just an advertisement of "hey, I want to do a riot"  
but a physical and visual distinction from citizens,  
and an implicit threat of violence if the crowd gets too worked up over anything.  
If someone were to, say,  
show up in riot gear and scream obscenities at protesters,  
for instance.  

Every riot is incited.

[Police in identifiable armbands were undercover among the protesters.][16] (16)

Cops will break your windows too.

Fascists who showed up to the protests in a rough approximation of riot gear were readily accepted by the police.  
The National Guard, Rubber Bullets, Tear Gas, Maiming, Blinding, Death...  

Bloody hell will follow them.  
Because they are the cause.  
Of death for far too many people.  
Red-blooded humans like you and me.  
This will not end without bloodshed,  
because bloodshed is the problem.  

Let's get rid of them.  
The cops.  
The state.  
We can survive, we can have order without force,  
we can help each-other way more than they have ever helped us.

They were born from slave patrols, to recollect property.  
Slaves were freed though, so they were given the tools to arrest new ones.  
They exist only to protect the property of those with far too much.  
CNN  
MSNBC  
Fox News  
No matter where you are on the mainstream spectrum,  
you will be fed the same lies,  
the lies of capital,  
the lies of the state,  
the lies of liberalism.  
There will be no end to fascism until there is an end to the state,  
and I'm against fascism.  

[{Trump Tweet about how anti-fascists are actually The Bad}][17] (17)  

Well that was a poorly timed statement.  

Republican politicians will take off their masks,  
and Democratic politicians will show their true colors.  
If you're a liberal, or even a moderate conservative,  
you best believe they will mark you as antifa if you don't go along with fascist policy and rule,  
so guess what everybody!
Don't like mussolini?  
YOU'RE A TERRORIST NOW!  

Yeah, there's gonna be some bloodshed...

Oh well.  

[Cornell West on Anderson Cooper 360:][18]  
It is so clear it is a Lynching at the highest level,  
nobody can deny it,  
and I thank god that we have people in the streets.  
can you imagine this kind of lynching taking place and people are indifferent?  
people don't care? people are callous?  
if you have just a few people out there with signs?  
I recall the moments in which, during the Reagan years,  
there was a few of us out there.  
in the 60s you had masses out there.  
Now you've got a younger generation of all of these different colors and genders and sexual orientations saying,  
"we won't take it any longer!"  
But you know what's sad about it, brother, on the deepest level?  
It looks as if the system can not reform itself.  
We've tried black faces in high places,  
too often our black politicians,  
professional class, middle class,  
become too accommodated to the capitalist economy,  
too accommodated to the militarized nation state,  
too accommodated to the market driven culture,  
tied in with celebrity status,  
power,  
fame,  
all of that superficial stuff that means so much to so many fellow citizens and what happens?   
What happens is we got a neo-fascist gangster in the white house who really doesn't care for the most part,  
you got a neo-liberal wing of the Democratic Party that is now in the drivers seat,  
with the collapse of brother Bernie,
and they don't really know what to do 'cause all they want is  
"Show more black faces, show more black faces,"  
But often times these black faces are losing legitimacy too,  
because the Black Lives Matter movement emerged under a black president,  
a black attorney general,  
and black homeland security,  
and THEY couldn't deliver!  
so when you talk about the MASSES of black people,   
the precious poor and working class black people,  
poor and working class brown, red, yellow,  
whatever color THEY are the ones who are left out and they feel so thoroughly powerless,  
helpless, hopeless, then you get rebellion  
And we've reached the point now,  
it's a choice between non-violent revolution,  
and by Revolution,  
what I mean is the democratic sharing of power,  
resources,  
wealth,  
and respect.
If we don't get that kind of sharing,  
you gonna get more violent explosions.  

Blessed Be the Fireflies of Summernights Eternal.
*-- Luna Lockhart, 2020*

### Citations:

[01]: https://archive.org/details/deathinhaymarket00gree  
[01: Death in the Haymarket - James Green](https://archive.org/details/deathinhaymarket00gree)

[02]: https://archive.org/details/haymarkettragedy00avri  
[02: The Haymarket Tragedy - Paul Avrich](https://archive.org/details/haymarkettragedy00avri)

[03]: https://books.google.com/books?id=qw8AAAAAMBAJ&q=atlanta+race+riot+1906&pg=PA163#v=snippet&q=a%20century%20ago%2C%20our%20city&f=false  
[03: Four Days of Rage: Atlanta's Race Riots](https://archive.is/mzv3b)

[04]: https://docsouth.unc.edu/southlit/dixon_intro.html  
[04: The Clansman](https://archive.ph/o2wZm)

[05]: https://www.nytimes.com/1906/09/28/archives/paper-blamed-for-riots-grand-jury-accuses-atlanta-news-of-stirring.html  
[05: Grand Jury Results](https://archive.is/uhAwV)

[06]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p8l4piyGhoE  
[06: GA National Guard kettling and firing tear gas into protesters (Youtube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p8l4piyGhoE)

[07]: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/atlanta-police-department-morale-down-mayor-keisha-lance-bottoms-says/  
[07: Keisha Lance Bottoms "Police Morale is at an All-Time Low"](https://archive.is/UgPoY)

[08]: https://www.du.edu/ludlow/cfhist3.html  
[08: History of Ludlow's Massacre](https://archive.is/vKmp)

[09]: http://loc.gov/pictures/resource/ggbain.15859/  
[09: Ludlow Colony Ruins](https://archive.ph/ldMqh)

[10]: https://www.flickr.com/photos/23155134@N06/11386959625/
[10: Ludlow Today](https://web.archive.org/web/20171027220730/https://www.flickr.com/photos/23155134@N06/11386959625/)

[11]: https://minorjive.typepad.com/hungryblues/2004/06/from_delmar_to_.html  
[11: Birmingham Bombing](https://archive.ph/fMuaj)

[12]: https://news.google.com/newspapers?id=axoNAAAAIBAJ&sjid=KWwDAAAAIBAJ&dq=birmingham-crisis&pg=5844%2C1871492  
[12: Birmingham Riot](https://archive.ph/7blVK)

[13]: https://www.rawstory.com/2020/05/they-just-fired-on-us-horrifying-videos-of-cops-using-journalists-for-target-practice-in-minneapolis/
[13: Minneapolis Police Shooting At Journalists](https://archive.is/RTtoW)

[14]: https://www.nytimes.com/1963/05/17/archives/malcolm-x-scores-kennedy-on-racial-policy-says-he-is-wrong-because.html  
[14: Malcolm X Condemns Kennedy's Response](https://archive.ph/siDid)

[15]: https://archive.org/details/CMHPub3020  
[15: Strike Force Creation](https://archive.org/details/CMHPub3020)

[16]: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/29/us/atlanta-protest-cnn-george-floyd.html  
[16: Atlanta Police Intervention](https://archive.ph/arS5N)

[17]: https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/trump-says-he-will-designate-antifa-terrorist-organization-gop-points-n1220321  
[17: Trump Calls AntiFA Terrorists](https://archive.ph/rfyc7)

[18]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JNfqr-rzj5I  
[18: Cornell West: Representation Hasn't Fixed Anything Material (Youtube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JNfqr-rzj5I)
