---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2020-08-07
headline: The Untold Truth About Great Man Theory! (Re-Contextualizing History)
summary: NO MORE HEROES!
---
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gG0sLjmsbw8)  
[Video (34MB .webm) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/kbz0d8r9yeaj934/2020-08-07-history.webm?dl=1)  
[Audio (1.4MB .opus) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/guoietmoc9vfvla/2020-08-07-history.opus?dl=1)  
[Subtitles: (15.9kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/iwpleeabdtqiijc/2020-08-07-history.vtt?dl=1)

History is a lot softer than many people realize.  
We tend to think of things as having happened or not having happened,  
based on the words in a book we were given in school,  
but things aren't really all that simple.  
For instance, I learned parts of the Lost Cause narrative of the civil war in school,  
and I accepted it as truth,  
but by the time I had left school,  
I found a whole lot of evidence that that history was a lie.  
Like, pretty much all of it.  
Try, if you can, to imagine history as an intertwining mass of thread,  
some of those threads aren't supposed to be in there,  
and they tend to be easier to notice than the real ones,  
but they're still difficult to pull out of the Gordian Knot.

So, we should talk about why I reject the conventional view of history,  
and how I view history in turn.

History is not a straight line with demarcations every hundred years or so,  
we have to remember that time is a human construct and as such is exceptionally messy.  
We also have to remember that History is told by the survivors,  
and the survivors can't always be trusted to tell events as they happened,   
[as various studies about eyewitness accounts have shown.][01] (01)  

With these two things connected, we can make a rather simple observation:  
We are not good at accurately recording OR telling history.  
Another factor in history's telling is ideological bias, or ideological intent, depending on the teller.  
This ideological slant can whitewash events so they aren't remembered as they happened,  
erase events entirely, or invent lore for their ideological proponents out of whole cloth.  
Just how much of Mark Zuckerburg's biography is true?  
I'd say probably most of it, but definitely not all of it.  
We see this coming out of the police all the time,  
where they give a full event timeline of a killing and then the footage comes out,  
disproving the lie; however, this doesn't always matter,  
and is frequently ignored by less discerning press,  
solidifying the intended narrative in the minds of millions.

Stalin famously had Leon Trotsky removed from all photos of him with Lenin  
to designate his form of socialism invalid and historically verboten.  
King Leopold famously burned all state documents when he gave over control of the Congo,  
saying that although the Congo was no longer his, quote  
"they have no right to know what I did there."  
Heinrich Himmler had Germany decorated with swastikas,  
festooned with propaganda linking old and new,  
attempting to appear more prosperous than they were,  
and Lenny Riefenstahl's "Triumph of the Will" is still held as a cinematic achievement.  
kinda.  
I've included Dan Olson's fantastic analysis of it in the description,  
but in short, even the "fact" that it's a cinematic achievement is itself propaganda that  
[has made its way into the history books.][02] (02)  
I hope my point is clear.  

### Great Man Theory

The Great Man theory of history is an, in my eyes, flawed way of looking at history.  
It tends to imagine history in terms of human lifespans,  
and views events as disconnected from events that happened before we were born or became aware.  
It pretty much states that history is driven by innovators, individuals with great minds and powerful allies.  
It oddly gives control of historic record to the most powerful individual,  
while ignoring all factors that lead that particular individual,  
as a part of a community,  
as a part of a society,  
to their achievements.  
Every event in human history could've been done by someone else.  
Einstein isn't special.  
Hitler isn't special.  
Beethoven isn't special.  
Obama isn't special.  
Trump isn't special.  

Nobody is special.  
We all benefit from our communities and from society,  
and a part of that benefit is momentum and knowledge resources.  
Einstein couldn't describe general relativity without the hundreds of thousands of experiments,  
publications, and failures from Issac Newton's gravitation up to and including Albert Einstein's special relativity.  
Issac Newton couldn't have described gravity without the previous observations made by scientists before him,  
and so on and so on.
All of this can be traced back to the DAWN OF TIME!  
... kinda.  
But we could attribute these discoveries to someone completely different,  
who had a slightly different method to achieve the same answers.  
Finding the answers.  
That's the connection, really.  
We find things out.  
Whether or not a specific PERSON found out how to cultivate wheat is not really important,  
the fact we figured it out - at all - is what matters.  
Just because some problems are more complex to solve doesn't mean the answers aren't already extant,  
it doesn't mean that these specific people conjured the magic knowledge into existence,  
they just used a communal information source to figure out how things work.  
Don't get me wrong, I still think Einstein was a pretty clever man,  
but there were hundreds of other mathematicians... and their derivatives-  
who were just as clever, but didn't find the answer first.  
If we want to think about the history of science,  
we can't pretend like it happened in a vacuum.  
It's really frustrating trying to trace events through history,  
when so much of our historical material has praise or hatred for one dude.

This doesn't apply to science only, it applies to everything.  
To make an extreme example, let's pick on... Hitler?  
I don't know if I should go there.  
Let's go with the "Discovery" of the Americas,  
which is frequently attributed to Christopher Columbus,  
who mostly just worked slaves to death until Spain decided it needed to intervene,  
and stop him from brutalizing the natives of Hispaniola.

[Yeah, Christopher Columbus Is A Bastard][03] (03)  
According to historical documents of contemporary investigation into Columbus,  
he put down native unrest and revolt by first ordering a brutal crackdown in which many natives were killed,  
after which, he had their dismembered bodies paraded through the streets  
in an attempt to discourage further rebellion.  
Did he do all of this by himself?  
Was he somehow capable of killing hundreds of people and personally parading them around?  
No, he was just given power and had an army,  
because that's how things tend to happen in history for the most part.  
At least when it comes to white folks.  
So, was Christopher Columbus special?  
He was certainly treated as if he was special,  
and history has remembered his name,  
so he's clearly special, right?  
No, not really.  
He's not even special in his awfulness.  
ALL of the governors of Hispaniola were awful to the native people,  
mostly using them for slave labor.  
He didn't discover anything, either,  
he just invaded and nobody had the good sense to end him then and there.  
He wasn't even the first to take slaves from where he landed,  
that had happened before Columbus ever set foot on A ship,  
and without the restocking point in the Canary Islands,  
his trip would've been over long before he made it to this already inhabited land.  

This is why I don't trust the Great Man theory of history.  
It fails to resolve the most important question of "why did this happen?"  
without going into personal politics and individualist arguments  
that I have no interest in discussing,  
because I want to show you how I personally deal with history.

### Holistic Theory

When you look around at what's going on,  
with the president and the protests and the virus and the fascists,  
it's easy to be overwhelmed by the question "how did we get here?"  
What we have been doing is looking at History through the lens of lifetimes,  
of centuries or millennia even,  
and we frequently put a box around things that happened in our own lifetimes  
as being more real than what came before.

I propose pulling back on the big picture and ignoring that little box,  
because events are much more connected than we're taught to understand.  
It's exceptionally difficult to work out how we got here on the time scale of a single human life,  
because this didn't start in my lifetime or my mama's lifetime or my grandma's lifetime even.  
This started way back then, 1492... well, it started before then but I have to start somewhere,  
and it feels appropriate to talk about America's original sin: Slavery...  
Well, maybe not explicitly Slavery,  
I think unregulated enterprise is the original sin,  
and slavery is an inevitable outcome of unregulated enterprise.  
It's hard to beat "free labor."  
So, we started with unregulated enterprise,  
which ended up necessitating slavery,  
which had to be justified to people at the time.  
From this, we got race science,  
which gave us reasons for miscegenation laws and later, eugenics.  
Then we had the civil war over slavery,  
and then slavery was abolished except for people the police had imprisoned,  
which has pretty well entrenched a motive to imprison black folks,  
and plenty of propaganda and stereotypes left over from the past to work with.  
This gives us race in the context of modern racism,  
including that eugenics I mentioned earlier,  
and with our feedback loops in Germany, Italy, and South Africa.  
We moved from a colonial slave state to a privatized apartheid state,  
and now we're a liberal police state trending towards neofeudal fascist state,  
as our feedback loops have done before us.  
We are not the primary motivators of history,  
we are just the players,  
but if enough players deem to flip the script, we can.  
I invite you to look at the broader context when it comes to history,  
rather than looking at individuals who were in the right place at the right time  
for their motivations to match up with historical momentum.

I attempt to communicate this with how I talk about history here on my channel,  
and on my twitter, as a series of interlinked, but not interlocking, events.  
We can't solve ONE problem without solving a bunch of other problems at the same time.  
The reason it takes so many people to change the world  
is because everybody has different needs and they all need to be addressed in affecting change,  
or we aren't CHANGING THE WORLD.  
For example:  
No matter our marginalizing factors,  
the one we all have in common is "worker"  
and that should be something we rally around when attempting to solve the issues of marginalization.  
At the same time, we must be patient with people who are still in that mode of existence,  
because there are a lot of people who still believe in the power of specific individuals  
who they think of as Heroes.  
It's a cultish way of thinking, and it's gonna take some work to untangle.  
It's not just the right, it's the center and left too.  
Your economic ideas aren't what separate you from the elites,  
you're separated by class, and there are no Heroes.  
So, come with me on this journey to untangle the Gordian Knot of history.  

I will see you in part 2,  
where we go over the Holistic Theory of Identity and the ridiculous trash that is neoliberal identity politics.

[01]: https://www.pnas.org/content/114/30/7758  
[01: Study on Eyewitness Accounts](https://archive.is/6kWM4)

[02]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jJ1Qm1Z_D7w  
[02: Dan Olson / Folding Ideas on Triumph of the Will and the Cinematic Language of Propaganda (Youtube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jJ1Qm1Z_D7w)

[03]: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2006/aug/07/books.spain  
[03: Columbus Is A Bastard](https://archive.is/K39Gz)
