---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-12-06
headline: test
summary: test
lindex: test
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small,

How can I encourage you to read, engage with, and apply theory? that is, how can I get you to use the principles of scientific socialism to organize locally? What is the roadblock? in my viewpoint, it's largely a misunderstanding of the purpose of theory, and a trust in those who deride theory to be doing so in good faith and in good understanding. This leads to people reading less theory for themselves.

Let me tell you a story about myself, what I used to follow and believe, and how my views have changed, even as recently as this year. I will also outline my plan for local efforts I will be carrying out now that I've changed residence and have the confidence to do what needs to be done. I want to tell you how I got from a position of complaint to a position of action, because I think that journey is kinda interesting.

I grew up going to church, but I never felt compelled to. I never really bought in on the divine, but what I did buy in on is the deeds of Christ. The deeds of Christ basically molded my values and my worldview forever. I wish to teach, I wish that all are provided for, I wish the oppressed to overcome oppression, and I wish for the world to unite in peace. I learned that bigotry is wrong from the songs about Jesus, I learned of the importance of providing for the needy from bible study, I learned how to love my neighbor as myself from sunday school, I learned how to serve my community from the afterschool program, I was involved in church stuff all the way up until I was a legal adult, being told all about how Jesus Christ was a model for life. I can't deny that my worldview has changed quite a bit, but I still call myself an atheist Christian, because I understand where my values originated.  

2008, my first year voting. I voted for Obama, because his message of Hope was compelling. Hope and Change. I was idealistic, I thought we could just convince enough people to get the right people in office to get the right legislation passed to help out lower and middle class people, as I then called them. we lost our house less than a year later.  
by 2010, the democrats had stalled on getting anything done, the tea party was in full effect, I watched the bully pulpit go from squandered to nonexistant, and I began to recognize a flaw in the Democratic Party.  
2012, after 2 more years of relative inaction, I reluctantly voted for Obama again, because Romney seemed marginally worse I guess? They sounded so similar that I lashed out at someone for asking me to explain why I'm voting for Obama. I was no longer compelled by his messaging, so I looked to other politicians like Bernie Sanders in 2014 when I found his speeches on youtube and he made me wonder why all politicians weren't like him. I voted for democrats again, I can't even remember that election.  
2016 I got to vote for the guy I had discovered 2 years prior, I watched the DNC completely sabotage Bernie's campaign, and it turned me sour against the Democrats for good.  
I wrote a journal entry in 2016 that I have put on my site, and it illustrates how I felt at the time: quote
"Hillary lost. Trump won. And people are complaining about Russians. This country has serious issues…

Well, I have some thoughts about this election, now that it’s all over, and it feels like this outcome was inevitable. The Democrats were greedy, Bernie Sanders made a valiant effort, but it wasn’t enough to break the Democratic National Committee. Sanders’ messaging hit home for a lot of younger folks, like myself, and positioned himself as the positive, perhaps reformist, anti-establishment candidate. Trump’s messaging hit home for a lot of working class folks, like myself, and positioned himself as the negative, perhaps destructive, anti-establishment candidate. The Democrats went with Hillary Clinton. This is why they lost.  
If Trump is as bad as they say he is, it’s going to be their fault, their greed, their incalculable incompetence at making a dent in the armor around the hearts and minds of millions that is going to be responsible for him being in office. Trump’s campaign was a trainwreck. MSM couldn’t look away. Millions in free advertising for every weird thing Trump did. Now what? Well, we keep working, maybe tomorrow will be brighter if we light a beacon for freedom, so, grab a match."
unquote  

I should note that "reformist" no longer holds a positive connotation to me.  
2017 is where my transformation really begins though, because that was the first year I called myself an anarchist, which is the first year I took things seriously, and the first year that I recognized that we cannot rely on the democrats. I knew for a fact that we needed a worker run world! I committed myself to... anarcho-syndicalism.  
Anarcho-syndicalism is the ideology of the General Strike, in essence, as a tool of revolution. It's promoted by unionist liberals like Chomsky, it's parodied by liberalist clowns like Musk, and it was my first choice because I grew up a union gal and a bit of a liberal.
I feel for anarcho-syndicalists, I believe their hearts to be in the right place, and I believe their methods to be fairly effective at achieving reform, but I believe they make a fatal logistical error. A General Strike might be a powerful weapon, but with declining union membership and, relatedly, increasing automation, it's looking less like a weapon we have the strength to load, much less fire. We have absurdly high unemployed and underemployed rates, and that itself puts a breach in our armor.
As written by good old Karl Marx in Wage Labor and Capital (great book, you should read it):

there is competition between the buyers and the sellers of labor: employers wish to pay as little in wages as possible, and workers wish to receive as much in wages as possible. The result of this competition will depend on the strength of each industrial army. quote "Industry leads two great armies into the field against each-other, and each of these again is engaged in a battle among its own troops in its own ranks. The army among whose troops there is less fighting, carries off the victory." unquote.  
When the supply of workers outstrips the demand for labor, wages can remain depressed, and the supply of workers is nearly neverending. The poor and starving consist of the army of workers' most desperate, and capital can and will employ this reserve army to increase competition within the army of workers.  
Kellogg's done that recently, demonstrating the limits of industrial action.  
we have to be prepared to lose without losing composure, which means that we can't fly at each-others' throats over meaningless discourse. we're already losing right now, that's what's happening with the united states american working class. we're making headway, if you've seen the strikes happening, but that's still the spontaneous element in a lot of cases.  
the organized strikes are having better success, but Kellogg is just replacing union members instead of doing anything to satisfy the demands of the strikers. when competition is high among the army of sellers, the army of buyers are united in kind, so, we absolutely cannot rely on the spontaneous element alone, we need better organizing, and it can't just be focused on the workplace, it needs to be focused on affecting change through building power and meeting the needs of the community today rather than trying to just make the revolution happen somehow, by sheer force of will, with "the idea is the thing" at the center of action.
2018 I saw some democratic socialists join the democrats and by 2019 I had seen them subsumed. I can't remember how disappointed I was, because I have resigned myself to being disappointed by democrats by this point in time.  
2019, I started this channel with a series called "The Problem" in which I played the part of someone who wasn't really familiar with theory, but wanted to be a revolutionary anyway.
By the end of 2019, I no longer agreed with myself at the beginning of 2019, and 2020 was mostly just catatonic crisis mode. you see, I originally joined to be a part of Breadtube, which I now find to be both a toxic subreddit and a spectacular image that goes against a significant portion of my values. I had to re-evaluate my relationship with the baguette, and by the time november rolled around, I was pretty much done with them.  
Sorry if you happen to be coming from that subreddit, or if you are a fan of le baguette, but there's too much poison in that well.

the DNC did more shady shit to Bernie, but I don't care anymore, I spoke out about Biden before he was elected and got called a fascist sympathizer a whole bunch from november '20 to january '21 because I was being a principled anarchist. I wasn't gonna bow down to the Democratic Party, I wasn't going to let the individualist arguments overwhelm the collectivist outlook I've been constructing on this channel. I made observations about how, after the 1/6 riots, a lot of so-called anarchists were calling for snitching to the FBI about people involved in that riot, and got called a fascist sympathizer again, for being a principled anarchist, from january to... I dunno, someone's probably still salty about that. I had no idea how to resolve the contradictions in what I had been teaching, and that's when I picked up theory.  
2021 is shaping up to have been a momentous year for me. I've moved house, I'm getting surgery soon, I started up a new series called New South Radio to try to broaden my reach slightly, and note a distinct break in how I look at the world from the person I was when I started The Problem.

I barely recognize my positions in 2019. I still hold a few of them, but the places where I disagree with myself yank at my skin. I probably wouldn't be as harsh about anarchists if I hadn't've been one so recently and still feel betrayed by the impulses that lead me to those positions. When I picked up Theory, I started with Kropotkin, Malatesta, and Goldman, but I found my way to Marx and Engels, Lenin, Stalin, Mao, X, King, Hampton, Nkrumah, Ture, Rashid, etc. etc. and I understand a lot more about what's going on than I used to. I was angry with myself for not picking up on this stuff earlier, but much more angry with people who just yell "read theory!" as if that's gonna reach anybody.

I know who is in my audience, there's not many of you, but some of you want to be community educators like I do. and I want you to keep that in mind. Someone who eventually found education in theory was initially turned off of theory by people who fetishize theory but refuse to apply it.
there need to be more bridges, that means building them, not burning them. if you simply want to burn shit down, you are not my comrade. if you simply want to tear people down, you are not my comrade. If all that matters to you is destruction and competition, you should change the channel, because you are not my comrade.  
The anarchists I talk to on a regular basis tend not to be that type, but on occasion, I meet someone who appears to desire for the collapse of society outright, or someone who has nothing on their minds but vitriol over old pointless drama. I have tried to stay off twitter, because twitter has the worst version of everything, and some anarchists are saying silly shit like: "if you think large scale production and distribution cannot be organized via the free and equal association of the producers, then you're not a communist or a marxist." So. If you think that the marketplace and the anarchy of production are two of the main issues of capitalism, you are not a communist or a marxist......... ok. so that's a lie.

But I'm sorry to the anarchists for focusing my anger on them as individuals at points during this past year, but I've been under attack for breaking with my previous orthodox, I've gotten the ridiculous epithets Tankie and Class Reductionist, as I've already said a few times before. I should've focused my ire on the existential threat to anything that could approach a mass movement inside the imperial core: Imperialism, just the same as anywhere else in the world.  
I'm no longer a Syndicalist, I'm no longer an Anarchist, I am a Communist, and I'm pushing for Communism. That should be a positive word for you, and you should make it a positive word for those you talk to. If you're going to be educating people about the labor struggle, you absolutely need a theoretical basis that goes beyond "the idea is the thing."  

quote Lenin in What is to be Done "[...] the “spontaneous element”, in essence, represents nothing more nor less than consciousness in an embryonic form. Even the primitive revolts expressed the awakening of consciousness to a certain extent. The workers were losing their age-long faith in the permanence of the system which oppressed them and began... I shall not say to understand, but to sense the necessity for collective resistance, definitely abandoning their slavish submission to the authorities. But this was, nevertheless, more in the nature of outbursts of desperation and vengeance than of struggle." unquote  

we're seeing this same shit right now, we have these big events that are spontaneous and loud, but lack discipline, and as such lack direction and aim, which I guess brings us back to "how do I get y'all to read, engage with, and apply theory?"
it's very clear to workers that shit's fucked up, clearly, look how many walkouts there are, look at the "Labor Shortage" narrative, look at the strikes, look at the amount of anticapitalist media that exists, they don't just need anticapitalist media tho. they need real re-education.  

We can either accept that we are not immune to propaganda, and we can construct robust defenses and make our own, or, we can just repeat "I am not immune to propaganda" while feverishly buying into and repeating liberalist propaganda. This is one of the main reasons I broke off from Breadtube at the end of 2020, the individualist, anarchist, idealist, and utopian crowd turned against me for bringing up how they're repeating cold war era anticommunist propaganda.

Quote Lenin again, "But why, the reader will ask, does the spontaneous movement, the movement along the line of least resistance, lead to the domination of [liberalist] ideology? For the simple reason that [liberalist] ideology is far older in origin than socialist ideology, that it is more fully developed, and that it has at its disposal immeasurably more means of dissemination." unquote.  
we talk about how liberalist ideology is accepted en masse by the working class and it makes sense why we're discouraged from thinking about the framework in which we operate, and encouraged to think more of the spontaneous "struggle" which is, in fact, a spectacle. a performance. Spontaneous action lends itself to recuperation by liberalist ideology, so of course those without a social-scientific background would have MORE issues achieving consciousness.  
The spontaneous "struggle" takes place mostly in the form of protest, but protest is inadequate. Protest is catharsis, because it feels good to tell someone to fuck off. I would argue that protest is not only inadequate in terms of action, but also inadequate in terms of education and organization. If you go to a protest, you should be recruiting for organization. "for what organization, though!?" the unorganized masses cry out, well, for the ones you help run, the ones you start, the ones you join, you should be building networks of local contacts, and you should be educating about the practical tasks and material conditions, because we cannot rely on mass media or social media for everything.  
I'll be putting my "Money" where my Mouth is on this, specifics to come, but I've got a reading / study group coming up, I'm going to be talking more to them about what our focus will be on, but one of our tasks will be recruiting from protests. Why protests? It's a high concentration of disaffected people, easy resource for an organizer to delve into. These people are more likely to want to "do the work" and are less likely to value their free time more than they value affecting change.  
I've seen talk, in the books and articles that I'm reading, of the Mass Movement of Revolutionary Fervor. We have the fervor, but why don't we have the movement? why don't we have a mass movement? I mean, I have a pretty good idea why: America is built on the glorification of revolution, while teaching nothing of the theory and practice of revolution. There's unfinished business here, and those in control are aware of that fact. We have to be able to harness that energy.
I know a lot of y'all ain't organizers and don't want to be organizers, but I am determined to be a teacher, and to teach, I must organize a class. I guess we'll see how that all pans out so... wish me luck. I know The State's track record when it comes to organizers.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:
