---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-09-
---

##	Title
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()
[Video (-50MB .webm) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Audio (-5MB .opus) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Subtitles: (-50kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  
Afghanistan is free from our corrupting clutches,  
perhaps they will succeed,  
perhaps they'll make us watch as they live without our greed.  
Taliban, Taliban, a conflict ensued,  
and we left afghanistan, as we s'posed to.  

A Video came 'round that y'all might've seen,  
it's infuriating, it's inflammatory,  
and the person likes to piss off people like ... me?  
I think?  

[Annoying Prick]:  
gosh what a fun weekend I'm having!   

[Luna]  
I would like to address this annoying prick,  
but I also don't want to make a whole video just about them.  

[Annoying Prick]:  
if you're one of those people attacking veterans on the internet for lamenting the fall of afghanistan,  
you're a bad person!

[Luna]
I watched it,   
you may have watched it,  
but essentially,  
the claim is that people should strive to use nuance when talking about afghanistan,  
and uh... yeah, that's what I'mma do.  
Let's Get... Nuanced.  

First




Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*
