---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-09-19
headline: What's Wrong With A Little Bloodshed?
summary: On The State, Violence, and Revolution
lindex: newsouth07
---
Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners, I have heard your concerns, and I will address them.  

You want peace, you want comfort, you want a non-violent revolution, you want radical reformation without bloodshed, and I don't think y'all are quite aware of how little control we have over whether or not a revolution becomes violent.  

so... let's talk about the state, violence, and revolution.  

We are asked to suffer in silence, told that we have to be quiet, we can't rock the boat, we have to give diplomacy a chance while being asked to shut up.  
We are asked to accept peaceful tactics and peaceful solutions, that all violence is evil, all institutions of violence are equally evil, and that we should "give peace a chance."  
We hear about Social Justice and Justices in the Courts, we are told about people "Brought To Justice" by the "Justice Department" which purports to uphold Justice.  
There can be no silence on the front of battle until the final bullet is fired.  
there can be no peace until peace is given to the people.  
there can be no justice in a system of injustice until that system is abolished.  
No Silence, No Justice, No Peace.  
not until the Federal Government gives way to a new union, a union of people, not of states. A New South will rise from the ashes of the old, a new union will arise as this one collapses.

The people will not be quiet, will not be peaceful, and will not bend a single knee to the system of injustice that perpetuates itself on the blood of workers, exploited by owners, and never gives in to the demands of labor unless it dictates the terms of surrender.  
Shouldn't we be the ones dictating to the people who have stolen everything they own from us?  
Shouldn't we have the majority say in what happens to the fruits of our labor?  
Shouldn't we build structure to support humanity as it transitions from an old world, ruled by a power-majority population-minority that only works hard when it comes to fleecing you and me out of those fruits?  
Shouldn't we take those fruits back?  

We should.

## Preparations
"But how?" you may ask, and I agree, that does sound like a large task, but nothing motivates me quite like a big project. Let's go over what steps I propose to prepare for that eventuality:

Educate. We must know who and what came before us to know how we should conduct ourselves in future. As Luxemburg wrote about, this requires scientific principles. Scientific principles such as the Scientific Method and Dialectical Materialism are what I propose, which together make one leg of Holism in Theory and Practice.

Organize. We must become unions of writers and manual laborers and artists workers of all sorts, we must collectivize our power into a form of direct democracy, unencumbered by electoralism and reformism, which, together, are the albatross around the neck of the left in the United States to this day. Unions and Worker's Councils, provisional armies to defend the revolution, and structures of education and distribution owned by the people and for the benefit of the people.

Act. We cannot get hung up on the question of "where" or "when" because the answer is "everywhere" and "now" and that's not helpful when it comes to planning. Without organization and education, action will fail. Without action, education is just theory-purism, and organization is a method of stifling action. So Action, through direct means, should be the given course, because we will not up-heave and overturn the rule of our owning class without acting to throw them off our backs.

I wrote about this in my video "Organize FIRST, then ACT!" which you can [watch or read the transcript for here:][BAY1] (BAY1)  

## Name Calling

Problem: My plans of action make some accuse me of being a Tankie and a Class Reductionist.  
Solution: Keep Talking, because they just want to shut me up.  
You know who and what you're watching, I don't think I fooled any of you...  
well...  
I fooled one person for a while and they got super damn upset when they realized "what??? she's a union revolutionist???" anyway, things have changed in the past couple years, I no longer publicly identify with labels, because labels are bullshit, but my rhetoric is informed by a wide cast of characters from communists to anarchists to tent revivalists and ministers and black nationalists alike. the more we get turned off by labels, the more we let the spectacular words of capital prevent us from reaching for the stars and keeps us with knives at each-others' necks, pretending like WE are the purest "leftist" ever made, like, right? left? what? no. neither. fuck that.

I tried to market myself to The Left but because The Left is such a confusing mess of ideologies and capitalist propaganda masquerading as socialist theory and just the fact that "socialist" is now a thing people call themselves while calling for *basic reform* I kinda stopped. clearly, the people I need to reach are the workers. that's the long and short of it. partisan politics is bullshit. first time I said this out loud, I got called a class reductionist. second time I said it out loud, I got called a tankie. I... don't know if I classify as either? I don't really even know what "class reductionism" even is anymore to be honest.

Holism requires us to look at things from different perspectives to get the bigger picture, and that means acknowledging class when talking about things like identity, and I'm honestly just waiting for someone to accuse me of being a strasserite nazbol and get it over with, like, there are so many stupid names you get called for daring to say "hey, maybe capitalist politics are broken and we shouldn't play along," so I might as well collect 'em all.

It's not that we shouldn't run for office, we absolutely should, but it shouldn't be for reforming the system. if you win, your goal should be making a mockery of the institution while proposing radical reforms and laughing as they get voted down. propose what the people want and need, propose an end to business property rights, an end to the stock market, dissolving the fed, making medical care a constitutional right, making housing a constitutional right, things we want and need but will never obtain without revolution. expect to serve one term, prepare to serve less than a full term, and be vigilant for bad faith actors who want to offer paths forward for your reforms with strings attached.

Malatesta wrote about radical reform as the definition of revolution, and the violence is rarely on the end of the revolutionaries until their legal and illegal actions become justification for a kill warrant, and their self defense is demonized in the media to further justify it.  

Lenin wrote about radical reform as a legal method of doing revolution, and the illegal methods were used to justify his exile, and revolution occurred soon after his return, so Malatesta is correct in his assessment, in different words, 5 years later

Malatesta in 1922, ["The Anarchist Revolution"][MAL1] (MAL1) to give perspective, on abolition of the police and how you have to replace policing with something else, it can't just be abolished outright:  
"  
In order to abolish the police and all the harmful social institutions we must know what to put in their place, not in a more or less distant future but immediately, the very day we start demolishing. One only destroys, effectively and permanently, that which one replaces by something else; and to put off to a later date the solution of problems which present themselves with the urgency of necessity, would be to give time to the institutions one is intending to abolish to recover from the shock and reassert themselves, perhaps under other names, but certainly with the same structure.
"  

Lenin, 1917, ["the state and revolution"][LEN1] (LEN1) speaks of replacing institutions by building and constructing a state that will wither away instead of a fully dominant one,
"  
[In] seizing state power, the [working class] thereby “abolishes the state as state". [...] [These] words briefly express the experience of one of the greatest [worker's] revolutions, the Paris Commune of 1871. [...] The [worker's] Revolution will “abolish” the [capital-state]. [...] [The capital-state] does not “wither away”, but is “abolished” by the [working class] in the course of the revolution. What withers away after this revolution is the [worker's] state or semi-state.
"  
it's war, after all, lower case W, but still nominally war

Lenin also wrote in ["The Dual Power":][LEN2] (LEN2)    
"
To become a power the class-conscious workers must win the majority to their side. As long as no violence is used against the people there is no other road to power. [...] we do not stand for the seizure of power by a minority. [...] we stand for [worker's] class struggle against [liberal] intoxication, against [obstructionism], phrase-mongering and dependence on the [owning class].
"

Not saying these two would agree on everything, but the ideas of mutual aid and dual power, the idea of building better systems right now as a part of revolution, is a common theme in a lot of revolutionary literature I've read in the past couple years, we should pay attention.

this is why I'm a Holist, it's because we can't just destroy, the hard work of revolution happens right now in building a new society as this one collapses.

to build a new world from the ashes of the old, that's our mission, that's our promise, that's why we fight.

## On Violence  

But why not do so in peace?  
Syndicalists call for organized action, but I have seen a current of pacifism since 2020, and it has historical precedent.  
[As written by Malatesta:][MAL2] (MAL2)    
"  
[Pacifists admit] the right of the workers to break in the doors of a factory in order to seize the machinery, but [do] not recognize [the workers'] right to injure the factory-owner. And in this [they are] right if the owner should allow the workers to proceed without opposing them with force. But unfortunately the policemen will come with their truncheons and revolvers. What should the workers do then? Should they allow themselves to be taken and sent to prison? That is a game one soon gets tired of.

[Pacifists] certainly admit that the workers have the right to organize for the defeat of the [owning class] by means of a general strike. But what if the government sends down soldiers to slaughter them? Or what if the [owning class], which after all can afford to wait, holds out? It will be absolutely necessary for the strikers, if they do not wish to be starved out at the end of the second day, to seize on food wherever they can find it, and as it will not be given up to them without resistance, they will be obliged to take it by force. So they will either have to fight or consider themselves as conquered.  
"  

Peace is not something we can just practice and bring to life, because the way to peace is through escaping violence, and to escape violence, we must not shirk the ability to defend ourselves. Violence is not only an eventuality under capitalism, it's currently ongoing, and it's time to defend ourselves.  

["institutions born of violence are maintained by violence and will not give way except to an equivalent violence."][MAL1] (MAL1)

[Damen wrote about this in the 40s in resistance to fascism:][DAM1] (DAM1)  
"    
The working class must draw the lessons from the events which years of accepting legality has prevented them from seeing; to understand that it is not legal bodies that will defend them, that there is no neutral state nor higher justice to which we can appeal against the tyranny of the two forms of [capitalist] violence, which are right and might. The [working class] can only defend itself by creating its own organs of defense and offense.  

On the level of the law or by appealing to “fair play,” the working class will always be beaten if it relies on the protection of the law and human rights that the state (or the church) may offer oppressed citizens.  

It would be foolish to view the violence only in the brutality of this or that band of thugs, and not see in them the natural outcome of the politics of national solidarity that numb and confuse the [working class] in order to make it produce in silence.  

[...] and that is only one aspect of the problem.  
"  

I've been detailing The Problem for the past couple years now, and it's become clear to me that without class, any analysis of the intersections of identities and oppressions will be incomplete and will risk something more insidious than "National Solidarity" in "Identity Solidarity."  

Identity Solidarity is really Identitarian Separatism. Label Theory is bad and essentialist.  
"oh me? I'm an Introvert" no, you're a person, stop acting like it doesn't eat away at your sanity to be locked inside all day.  
"me? I'm a millennial" no bitch you're 30, what are you doing about the world around you? are you making it better?  
"I'm a leftist" you voted for Clinton in 2020. Bill Clinton.  
"if you don't have the perfect outlook of my label, and if your label is in conflict with my label, then I will personally make sure you never work again" so what the hell is the difference between you and the fascists you tell us to denounce?  

A lot of cross-class solidarity is built along lines of identity, and [Umberto Eco made a good observation in pointing out:][ECO1] (ECO1)  
"
To people who feel deprived of a clear social identity, Ur-Fascism says that their only privilege is the most common one, to be born in the same country. This is the origin of nationalism. Besides, the only ones who can provide an identity to the nation are its enemies. The followers must feel besieged.
"

We have to resist the Cult of the Hero in Neoliberal Democracy, because ultimately, Neoliberalism is the synthesis of Classical Liberalism with Fascism, and all of the contradictions are obfuscated using division of the working class against itself while calling for solidarity with the owning class to save us from... the owning class, all the while exposing us to more violence from the owning class.


National Solidarity and Identity Solidarity both require cross-class solidarity, which is kinda bad in my opinion. I'm not saying no alliances can be made, that purist strategies are the only valid ones, but the idea of being in solidarity with Caitlyn Jenner just because both of us are transes, or with Joe Biden just because he's not Donald Trump is farcical at best and toxic at worst. Class solidarity should be our goal in building revolution.  
We cannot look at things as granular as identity, nationality, locality, and anything but the totality and reach a useful understanding of the issues we face. The Holist perspective is that we need to look at the big picture. Your perceived identity determines what form your oppression takes, your class determines the effect. Our Democratic-Republican government upholds the suppression of the working class by force and by passive threat of starvation and exposure.  
[as Damen said:][DAM2] (DAM2) "The democratic state is complicit [in capitalist and fascist violence,] and allows it to be done."

[It's as Stalin put in Dialectical and Historical Materialism:][STA1] (STA1)  
"  
[...] we must not cover up the contradictions of the capitalist system, but disclose and unravel them; we must not try to check the class struggle but carry it to its conclusion.

Hence, in order not to err in policy, one must pursue an uncompromising [working] class policy, not a reformist policy of harmony of the interests of the [workers] and the [owners], not a compromisers' policy of the "growing" of capitalism into socialism.
"  

To avoid allowing this cycle of violence to continue, we have to change paths, because the capital-state, neoliberal fascist USA, will not bow to radical reforms alone, it needs to be overturned, by Education, by Organization, and by Judicious but Unyielding Application of Force.  

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net, for sources and transcript, as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

References:

[BAY1]: https://peoplesbayo.net/2021/08/10/newsouth05.html
[BAY1: Organize FIRST, then ACT!](https://peoplesbayo.net/2021/08/10/newsouth05.html)
Quotes:

[MAL1]: https://www.marxists.org/archive/malatesta/1922/anarchist-revolution.html  
[MAL1: Anarchist Revolution](https://www.marxists.org/archive/malatesta/1922/anarchist-revolution.html)  
"
Revolution means, in the historical sense of the word, the radical reform of institutions, achieved rapidly by the violent insurrection of the people against existing power and privileges; and we are revolutionaries and insurrectionists because we do not just want to improve existing institutions but to destroy them completely, abolishing every form of domination by man over man, and every kind of parasitism on human labor; and because we want to achieve this as quickly as possible, and because we believe that institutions born of violence are maintained by violence and will not give way except to an equivalent violence. But the revolution cannot be made just when one likes. Should we remain inactive, waiting for the situation to mature with time?

And even after a successful insurrection, could we over night realize all our desires and pass from a governmental and capitalist hell to a [stateless, moneyless society, built on the co-operative principle]? [No.]
"

[MAL2]: https://www.marxists.org/archive/malatesta/1895/violence-as-a-social-factor.html  
[MAL2: Violence as a Social Factor](https://www.marxists.org/archive/malatesta/1895/violence-as-a-social-factor.html)  
"  
What means does Bell advise for getting out of this situation?

Propaganda, organization, moral resistance? Certainly these are the essential factors in social evolution, and it is from them that we must start, and without these revolutionary violence would be senseless, nay impossible.

Bell admits the right of the workers to break in the doors of a factory in order to seize the machinery, but he does not recognize their right to injure the factory-owner. And in this he is right if the owner should allow the workers to proceed without opposing them with force. But unfortunately the policemen will come with their truncheons and revolvers. What should the workers do then? Should they allow themselves to be taken and sent to prison? That is a game one soon gets tired of.

Bell certainly admits that the workers have the right to organize for the defeat of the bourgeoisie by means of a general strike. But what if the government sends down soldiers to slaughter them? Or what if the bourgeoisie, which after all can afford to wait, holds out? It will be absolutely necessary for the strikers, if they do not wish to be starved out at the end of the second day, to seize on food wherever they can find it, and as it will not be given up to them without resistance, they will be obliged to take it by force. So they will either have to fight or consider themselves as conquered.

In reality Bell's error consists in this, that while discussing the methods of attaining an ideal he presupposes that the ideal is already attained.

If it were really possible to progress peacefully, if the partizans of a social system different to that which we desire did not force us to submit to it, then we might say that we were living under Anarchy.
"

[MAL3]: https://www.marxists.org/archive/malatesta/1895/violence-as-a-social-factor.html  
[MAL3: Violence as a Social Factor](https://www.marxists.org/archive/malatesta/1895/violence-as-a-social-factor.html)  
"  
In short it is our duty to call attention to the dangers attendant on the use of violence, to insist on the principle of the inviolability of human life, to combat the spirit of hatred and revenge, and to preach love and toleration. But to blind ourselves to the true conditions of the struggle, to renounce the use of force for the purpose of repelling and attacking force, relying on the fanciful efficacy of "passive resistance," and in the name of a mystical morality to deny the right of self-defense, or to restrain it to the point of rendering it illusionary, can only end in nothing, or in leaving a free field of action to the oppressors.

If we really wish to strive for the emancipation of the people, do not let us reject in principle the means without which the struggle can never be ended; and, remember, the most energetic measures are also the most efficient and the least wasteful. Only do not let us lose sight of the fa ct that ours is a struggle inspired by love and not by hatred, and that it is our duty to do all in our power to see that the necessary violence does not degenerate into mere ferocity, and that it be used only as a weapon in the struggle of right against wrong.  
"

[MAL4]: https://www.marxists.org/archive/malatesta/1895/violence-as-a-social-factor.html  
[MAL4: Violence as a Social Factor](https://www.marxists.org/archive/malatesta/1895/violence-as-a-social-factor.html)  
"  
Thus the danger of being corrupted by the use of violence, and of despising the people, and becoming cruel as well as fanatical persecutors, exists for all. And if in the coming revolution this moral degradation of the Anarchists were to prevail on a large scale, what would become of Anarchist ideas? And what would be the outcome of the Revolution?  
"

[LEN1]: https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1917/staterev/ch01.htm#s4  
[LEN1: The State and Revolution](https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1917/staterev/ch01.htm#s4)  
"
In the first place, at the very outset of his argument, Engels says that, in seizing state power, the proletariat thereby “abolishes the state as state". It is not done to ponder over the meaning of this. Generally, it is either ignored altogether, or is considered to be something in the nature of “Hegelian weakness” on Engels’ part. As a matter of fact, however, these words briefly express the experience of one of the greatest proletarian revolutions, the Paris Commune of 1871, of which we shall speak in greater detail in its proper place. As a matter of fact, Engels speaks here of the proletariat revolution “abolishing” the bourgeois state, while the words about the state withering away refer to the remnants of the proletarian state after the socialist revolution. According to Engels, the bourgeois state does not “wither away”, but is “abolished” by the proletariat in the course of the revolution. What withers away after this revolution is the proletarian state or semi-state.
"

[LEN2]: https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1917/apr/09.htm  
[LEN2: The Dual Power][https://www.marxists.org/archive/lenin/works/1917/apr/09.htm]  
"
To become a power the class-conscious workers must win the majority to their side.As long as no violence is used against the people there is no other road to power. We are not Blancists, we do not stand for the seizure of power by a minority. We are Marxists, we stand for proletarian class struggle against petty-bourgeois intoxication, against chauvinism-defensism, phrase-mongering and dependence on the bourgeoisie.
"

[DAM1]: https://www.marxists.org/archive/damen/1946/bourgeois-violence.htm  
[DAM1: Bourgeois Violence and Proletarian Defense](https://www.marxists.org/archive/damen/1946/bourgeois-violence.htm)  
"  
The working class must draw the lessons from the events which years of accepting legality has prevented them from seeing; to understand that it is not legal bodies that will defend them, that there is no neutral state nor higher justice to which we can appeal against the tyranny of the two forms of bourgeois violence, which are right and might. The proletariat can only defend itself by creating its own organs of defense and offense.
On the level of the law or by appealing to “fair play,” the working class will always be beaten if it relies on the protection of the law and human rights that the state (or the church) may offer oppressed citizens.

It would be foolish to view the violence only in the brutality of this or that band of thugs, and not see in them the natural outcome of the politics of national solidarity that numb and confuse the proletariat in order to make it produce in silence.

So the problem of the defense of the proletariat against this second wave of capitalist attacks raises the political problem of regaining our class autonomy in the solid redoubt of the party, and that is only one aspect of the problem.  
"

[DAM2]: https://www.marxists.org/archive/damen/1946/bourgeois-violence.htm  
[DAM2: Bourgeois Violence and Proletarian Defense](https://www.marxists.org/archive/damen/1946/bourgeois-violence.htm)  
"The democratic state is complicit and ... allows it to be done."

[ECO1]: https://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/umberto-eco-ur-fascism
[ECO1: Ur-Fascism](https://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/umberto-eco-ur-fascism)
"
To people who feel deprived of a clear social identity, Ur-Fascism says that their only privilege is the most common one, to be born in the same country. This is the origin of nationalism. Besides, the only ones who can provide an identity to the nation are its enemies. Thus at the root of the Ur-Fascist psychology there is the obsession with a plot, possibly an international one. The followers must feel besieged.
"

[STA1]: https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/stalin/works/1938/09.htm
[STA1: Historical and Dialectical Materialism](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/stalin/works/1938/09.htm)
"
we must not cover up the contradictions of the capitalist system, but disclose and unravel them; we must not try to check the class struggle but carry it to its conclusion.

Hence, in order not to err in policy, one must pursue an uncompromising proletarian class policy, not a reformist policy of harmony of the interests of the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, not a compromisers' policy of the "growing" of capitalism into socialism.
"
