---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-10-11
headline: Death To America! (Long Live America!)
summary: Is Revolution Patriotic?
lindex: newsouth08
---
Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners, it's time to ask the question that nags at the edges of our little world, that eats at friendly arguments and tears apart our lives, that drives us mad within its presence, shattered minds and gnashin' teeth, it beckons us to answer:

Can you be Patriotic and also be a Revolutionary?

Well, it depends on how you define patriotism, country, America, revolution, and most importantly "people," so I'll be definin' my terms as I go here, as best I can.

But First, a little VERY RELATED housekeepin', thanks t' some new revelations about 1/6, the Capitol Riots, the "Coup" as some idiots called it. I said it was "an FBI Op" off hand, which got me criticism and denouncement 'cause I was a "paranoid super leftie;" However, I held that "FBI Op" was spiritually true, 'cause they knew about it before hand, they didn't do anythin' about it, and ultimately, it helped the FBI. I ended up makin' a video back in July to discuss the culmination of the Patriot Movement's 40 year plan, and it didn't get any legitimate pushback, because I was right.
Well, some things happened since I made that last video. Specifically, we now got evidence that everythin' I said MIGHT'a been happenin' on 1/6 pretty much did happen. I said the FBI did not lead the riots, but they were extremely well informed about what was goin' on, and I said the threat wasn't prioritized, I said the proud boys was filled with FBI informants, I said it was chaotic and barely planned at all, and I been proven right once more.
[We got court documents][JAN6] (JAN6) that show the intelligence community had moles to keep an eye on what was goin' down, they'd gotten more than enough advanced warnin', havin' been alerted in DECEMBER of violent civil-war-esque activity after Trump's Loss, but looks like the Proud Boys didn't plan to storm the capital, not in any organized manner at least. Some individuals had vendettas. It was unplanned, it was chaotic, the FBI had multiple informants on the ground on the 6th who showed up and chaos was already happenin'. They knew what was goin' on, they had the chance to prevent it, and what'd they do? they "kept an eye on it" right? I said the FBI didn't lead the riots, but they let 'em happen, and that opinion got me discredited from one place where I was previously well-respected, 'cause I dared say "this is gon' get used against us, stop fear mongerin' about fascists."  
These rioters called 'emselves Patriots, because they're a part of the Patriot movement that has been attemptin' a rightist take-over of the United States for the past 40-50 years, but I would not consider them to be patriotic. Their Patriotism is Nationalist-Militarism, it's cultivated by the capital-state to provide cheap pawns to use in securin' the resources they have stolen from others. within our borders as police, without our borders as soldiers, and without legal power as the propagandized and radicalized souls that were given every openin' to make a scene so they could be suppressed to suppress us all. I don't think that's Patriotism.

Patriotism is lovin', and devotin' yourself to, a country or nation. Country and Nation tend to get used interchangeably, but there's a difference. A Country is an area with its own gov'nment and also the people within that area. Nation is any self-identifyin' group of people associated with an area that seeks or holds gov'nment. America is... a nation, a country, a continent, and a mess. If we tried t' separate America "The People" from America "The Nation," and America "The Country," we would have no nation and no country. Some see this as the ideal state of things, a land without gov'nment, others view this as an unstable and untenable state. A small part of this disagreement comes from yet more semantics, because gov'nment can be any form of gov'nance, or, it can be a gov'nin' body itself. For instance, I am anti-this-gov'nment, but I'm not anti-gov'nance. I want the workers of america to claim they independence from the dictatorship of the ownin' class to form a new nation to lead America, but I'm not anti-american. So am I Patriotic for lovin' the people and cultures of this land, and the land itself? Or am I Anti-Patriotic because I think we should seize our independence from the mouth of madness that sits in the Capitol of every state in the union and seize the union itself?

...

Let's back up, What is America? that was the question.  
for me, America is the people. it's why "death to america" tweaks so many people. Those who say it are talkin' about our gov'nment, not our people, but that's not how it's interpreted, especially when our gov'nment uses it for propaganda. but I none the less agree with the sentiment: fuck the gov'nment, and fuck the constitution too, it was written and amended to be exclusively for the benefit of corporations. the 13th amendment didn't abolish slavery, it made slavery a public institution with private investors. Dartmouth College v Woodward, 1819, established that businesses are more important than the country itself when it was determined that because the king's charter was older than the country, Woodward wouldn't be allowed to make Dartmouth College a public institution. it was cited in Santa Clara County v. South'n Pacific Railroad Co., 1886, to give corporations essentially human rights from the 14th amendment, which was challenged in 1990 with Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce, where it was argued successfully that corporations are not covered by the 14th amendment, because they are not people. This was overturned with Citizens United v FEC in 2010, enshrinin' corporate personhood in law for the rest of my lifetime at very least. Corporate Personhood will die with the gov'nment that was set up to serve corporations, because corporations were here first.

Personhood, though, implies that <Mitt Romney Clip:>" Corporations are People, my friend, human beings my friends!" so it might be good to define what I mean when I say The People. I got some guy with his head stuck back in the French Revolution tellin' me that I need to define that, so, I'll humor his next of kin. To me no corporation can be a person, because a person needs its own agency, not its own gov'nance. A corporation has people within it, certainly, but it cannot make decisions on its own, and it never could. People live and people die, but corporations are the livin' dead, a contradiction starin' us right in the face. People do labor, corporations steal the products of our labor, stranglin' production just to squeeze another dime this quarter, for the almighty dollar is their only god. destroyin' coats in the winter so homeless people cannot use them, destroyin' food so the homeless can not eat it, cuttin' into they OWN PROFITS to maintain control of worker and company. People got community, we love each-other, live with each-other, help each-other, build each-other up when things're down, and heal each-other when we're sick. Corporations can NOT heal the sick, they can NOT build society, they can ONLY help themselves, and the livin' dead can NOT love. Corporations are anti-humanity, for their contradictions scream in our face, anti-community, for community is where the strength of the people lies, and anti-american because of the blood it has spilled to maintain its hold on these lands and these peoples.

I love America, and it pains me to watch as it gets ceaselessly strangled by the dictatorship of the ownin' class. it pains me to see our country struggle while we're bein' told to stop strugglin' and let it happen. This gov'nment bows to corporations. this democracy is run by those with stakes in corporations. capitalism is the disease that afflicts the people of this nation, and we need the country to exist for we the people, for real. That's what Patriotism is to me. Power to the people. ALL power to the people! Defendin' ourselves against the parasites, the filthy rich bastards who want us all to suffer, the heartless, lifeless corporations that bleed us dry, the federal state callin' itself The United States of America. at some point, the instruments with which we are allowed to change things are no longer appropriate to address the grievances of the people, and at such a time, the people will need to break more than just rules.  

The current challenge to the idea of a revolutionary workin' class in America is the work of anonymous author J Sakai, "Settlers: The Mythology of the White Proletariat," which has drawn praise from some on the left, but outright scorn from others. The main thrust of the book is that white workers are essentially different from non-white workers. It's tryin' to divide the workin' class, directly. Playin' into the myth of the noble savage, Settlers reinforces anticommunist rhetoric by insinuatin' that Communism is for White People, and that, somehow, it wouldn't do away with the private ownership of land, which is one of the core principles of communism for fuck's sake. What the argument is here is that you cannot be Patriotic, because it means supportin' a country that has colonized these lands. I disagree, not because this country somehow didn't start as a colony, but because I don't give a damn about the official country of America, but I love and cherish all that exists here.  

I asked if you can be patriotic and a revolutionary, but... If you don't fundamentally love the land on which you live, if you don't fundamentally love the people you fight for, if you are not fundamentally patriotic, why are you a revolutionary? Do you just want to burn shit down?

As put by Fidel Castro:
"[Communism] is ultimately deeply internationalist and, at the same time, deeply patriotic."  

if you are communist, you are anti-colonialist. if you are communist, you are anti-capitalist. if you are communist, you are pro-native. if you are communist, you are in favor of the equitable treatment of all and the management of land by those not seekin' to exploit it for capital. it's hard to take this shit seriously, because the identity-only morality parade we're dealin' with today started durin' the COINTELPRO years, and for some reason didn't get violently suppressed by the capital-state, only the communists (and the suspected communists of course) were. weird.  
Look, if you don't want to do the hard work of undoin' a few hundred years of propaganda dividin' the workin' class, so be it. Some of us actually WANT to reach ALL of the workers, which means not fightin' against some of them for no fuckin' reason, and fuck you if you have a problem with that. A part of buildin' revolution is lovin' thy neighbor as thyself, because spite for your neighbor will sew spite, and your fallow efforts will be met with reaction. We're all created equal, and we need to treat each-other with kindness. America the Country is my home, America the Nation is my people, and America the Dictatorship of the Ownin' Class is my enemy, forever-evermore.

In short: Settlers Bad, Workin' Unity Good, Don't listen to anonymous authors who misrepresent history with idealism instead of a more accurate, materialist, holistic history. The myth that there is no revolutionary spirit in the white proletariat of America, that all white people are a single, united class, is bull made up by the lapdogs of the ownin' class to obscure our class character as workers, and our potential to help overthrow this system. The colonizers are the oil barons who build pipelines through native land. The colonizers are the capitalists who bleed the land dry. The colonizers invade our lives to extract wealth from the workin' class and send that wealth abroad to off-shore accounts to avoid tax.  
You want your land back? Fight by our sides to overthrow capitalism. Fight by our sides as a part of a united workin' class. Fight by our sides to free the land from this oppressive gov'nment that has 2 parties with perfectly aligned class interests. Fight by our sides, comrades. God Bless America. Long Live America. Death to America.

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a workin' unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[JAN6]: https://www.nytimes.com/2021/09/25/us/politics/capitol-riot-fbi-informant.html
[JAN6: Informants Rioted In Capital](https://archive.ph/vw4fG/)
