---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-11-10
headline: Crypto Serves Imperialism
summary: I should know, I was there.
lindex: newsouth10
---
Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners, I have a confession to make. I used to invest in cryptocurrency, and I still kinda do. So, I apologize for my part in perpetuating imperialism, slavery, and child labor... oh you... you didn't know? about the child slavery? I guess I have a lot to explain.

To start, Imperialism is a stage of capitalism where Monopolies and Finance Capital dominate; in which Resource Extraction is an international industry; in which colonialism has divided the earth and capitalism has conquered it whole.

the pencil factory model of capitalism is no longer an appropriate model to use. This is why I talk about imperial capitalism. Capital itself is the power in modern capitalism, not the factory owners and their economically conscripted protectors, but the banks and corporations.
Corporations like NVIDIA control a large proportion of the cryptocurrency market, for instance, while holding significant commodity capital in key resource extraction industries.
This invariably ties even the penitent Non-Crypto-Investor part of cryptocurrency into human suffering and exploitation.
Honestly, I curse my time in crypto, I wish it had never happened, but boy does a lot of my analysis of capitalism stem from my intense, integrated experience of the cryptocurrency world.

I remember being told that I was the only person interested in a specific mining pool's community, everyone else was only in the discord for commands and help, and never gave any help. I ended up a moderator for almost every public mining pool's discord at one point or another. I watched people talk about people as property, about "the problem with bitches / fags / trannies n...injas," about parasitic cripples, about Jews running everything, about communists destroying society, basically everything short of 1488.  
At that point in time, I was very much a self-described anti-fascist, I figured fascism and capitalism were separate beasts. I hadn't put it together yet, but it became very clear that what I was steeping myself in was a reactionary market, because markets are reactionary. what clicked so loudly to me back then, and what has gotten me criticism since, is that these people had no motivation to better themselves through anything but competition. They needed a death to the egregore of capital, and freedom from their compulsions, not a lecture on how they're using problematic language in pursuit of exploitative goals. They were compelled to act in service of capital, because they were told that they would be allowed to act AS capital, but nothing could be further from the truth.  
The harder you work, the more you break your body and mind, the less chance you have of "success." the system doesn't reward hard work, it doesn't even reward good work, it rewards only the most competitive, cutthroat, deceitful, slanderous charlatanism this side of the void. The easiest way to get ahead is to make other people fight each-other. You start rumors, you redirect retribution onto your competitors, and you cut deals behind the scenes to drown your competitors in violations and turmoil.
It was insane watching it happen as a leader.
I was asked to intervene in a fight to make it stop, and the person who contacted me had started it and let other people fight over it. They stirred the pot and stepped away and didn't even delete the message. Amateur, I thought, but it kept happening with others. the competitive nature of these crypto-miners was obscene, but it was a complete and utter joke in comparison to the competitive nature of the showrunners. I got involved in multiple crypto startups, as a miner, and a supporter for the stated goals, and time after time after time after time the moment it hit a trading platform, the founders were not just absent, but completely vanished. Then someone would go "he's done this before."  
The Showrunners know each-other, and their goals are much more in line, than any of us were allowed to know, and the one time I got to see it as a moderator kinda broke all of my desire to participate in markets or startups or crypto ever again. the infighting alone was bad enough, but the sniping and open embezzling within the mod area is what killed it for me. They had no intentions on letting anybody know what was happening until the trap was already sprung and there was nothing to save, and no way out. it wasn't even ingenious. these people weren't smart. they were just competitive, deceptive, and almost pathologically incapable of sympathy. they were ruthless, and they let one guy take the fall, and the fall guy was in no way innocent, but neither were the rest of 'em. Crypto is just a microcosm of Capitalism.  
Bitcoin was supposedly created to escape from capital's grasp on capital, to avoid trading and markets, but here we are, a good 12 years later, and bitcoin just "rallied" to raise the crypto market capacity to 2 trillion US dollars.
After all the fluff NVIDIA put out about how their segregation of Graphics Cards from Mining Cards would keep Graphics Cards out of the hands of Miners, [it turns out that segregation doesn't actually stop cross-over, it just hides it,][NVIDIA1] (NVIDIA1) because a team has cracked that wall.

The concentration of this capital in the hands of a few is staggering, honestly. The big mining farms that buy up these cards and take the performance hit just to have cards to mine with. the huge energy sink that these farms become. [like, Bitcoin alone][BTC1] (BTC1) uses as much electricity as Thailand, with the carbon footprint of Chile, and the electronic waste output of the Netherlands. it's all predicated on imperialist capitalism, all about the export of capital from places with very little, like the coltan mines of Congo, all based on slavery in far off lands.
[NVIDIA invests in the commodities produced from those coltan mines, Tantalum for capacitors][NVIDIA2] (NVIDIA2) which means NVIDIA directly profits from the blood, sweat, and tears of child slaves in the DRC.
DRC used to be a colony of Belgium, it was exploited for rubber with extreme brutality, and now, brutality is being used by imperialists, the neo-colonialists are exploiting the Congo just as the colonialists had before them.
However, Ghana, a decolonized nation that went socialist before being couped into oblivion by imperialist america, is now the biggest recycling source for tantalum, so maybe they don't profit from child slavery? mmm. nah. no. child slavery is also used in the recycling of tantalum in Ghana. so, cool.

We must free ourselves from the capital-state, the instrument of oppression that the owners wield like a whip to bring the proletariat into line, to command production, which commands consumption, even though we are told we have a choice, It is an illusion. you cannot choose to be exempt from the oppression of the capital-state, because hunger and exposure are their main tools of, let's call it, "persuasion." The police have done more damage to the working populus than a hurricane can do to a seaside village, with their presence at protests being an antagonistic one to those of us who want better for humanity, but even they cannot account for the number of people who live on the streets and may or may not make it through the winter. nothing in comparison to the agony of the empty stomachs of thousands of children. nothing that an individual cop can do will ever compare to the deaths caused by the capital state's mere presence. From this, we will free ourselves.

workers in imperial core countries are not only ALSO being oppressed by imperial nations, but also oppressed doubly as they are subject to the imperialists within their own owning class.
So long as the dictatorship of the owning class persists, none are free from imperialism.
the social stratification of workers, the working poor, the surviving worker, the well-off worker, the sole-proprietor, the small fry capitalists, the big time capitalists, the imperialists, It's all an abstraction of the basic fact that capital dominates all, but understand it
We're stratified into identities, we're white or of color, you're republican or democrat, you're gay or straight, you're cis or trans, man or woman, jacob or edward... maybe not that last one, but, the reason we're stratified is because it's easier for the imperialists to control the workers if they're all fighting each-other. This is why we call for solidarity, not further atomization and stratification.

We must free ourselves from neo-liberalism, the compromise position between fascism and classical liberalism, with some identitarianism thrown in for good measure. Liberalism is the justifying ideology of capitalism, the justification for the oppression of you, of me, of everyone we know. Fascism is capitalism in crisis, attempting to save the system with violence and repression. the identitarian surge during the years of cointelpro was the result of neoliberal fascism. The surveillance, the sabotage, the killings, the false arrests, the drugs, the mayhem, and the surge of radical identity groups, all justified because the alternative is communism. The ruling class knows what's coming, so they're cracking down harder than ever. From this, we will free ourselves.

it may no longer be the case that strictly monopolists rule the roost, but private mergers are happening in ways that approximate monopoly with the blessing of the state.
We are subject to foreign capital because these ersatz-monopolies are frequently multinational corporations.
Ask anybody "where do profits go?" and there's a good chance they'll respond somthin to the effect of "the cayman islands" but what is in the cayman islands? international banks that profit from multi-industry corporate combines in countries across the globe!
we hear investor as "millionaire" but real investors sink billions of dollars into controlling more than they own, and hiding their income from taxation as "Capital Gains."
investors can be in the meetings where the money is made, but you must invest more than a worker can make.  
the small-fry owners and well-off workers in the US may be able to invest enough to get real returns on investment, but the rest of us are left to either play the stock market or the crypto market, and there's little solace in either. The concentration of capital is staggering.
in american capitalism, multinational corporations serve the same purpose as the syndicates of old, and the corporations themselves own the means and control the production, but politically, the banks have a huge amount of control.
big corporations hide their profits off-shore, thus becoming multinational, and these international banks profit greatly from the profit accelerator model of growth (that is, the model of growth in which expansion is put above rational / stable profit)
Something that you MUST understand is that the concentration of capital in the stock market and likely the crypto market (hard to tell) is absolutely staggering.
89% of capital invested in the stock market is owned by the richest 10% of the population
multinational corporations depend on expansion, depend on control through the stock-share system to earn their capital gains, and as such, the truth of the purpose of the stock market is laid bare.
And will the fed bail US out?
No.
Never.
The control that capital has is pervasive
to harp on NVIDIA just a little more, their embedded solutions end up in [military hardware][NVIDIA3] (NVIDIA3) and [more domestic environments][NVIDIA4] (NVIDIA4)

We must free ourselves from imperial capitalism, at home, and abroad, for it is the enemy of the working people of america, of the workers of the world, and of the earthen heaven set before us as land, flora, and fauna. The kingdom of god is being torn asunder for raw materials, for commodity capital, for the sake of building some stupid monument to capital's reign over the working class. This brings the illusion of unity with the chauvinist interpretation of pride in one's home, the false promises of imperial nationalism, in place of the working class solidarity we know we're capable of. We are dedicated to the fight for the working class. it is our duty, our calling, our task, the reason we fight as hard as we fight, the reason we reach out and educate! the reason we preach the union's might, and the reason we do not hesitate to step up and do what is to be done. The exploitation by international finance, the monopolization of the world, the use of war to protect our "assets" abroad, the military and capital union that leaves us fighting a demon in the belly of the beast. From this, we will free ourselves.

Go to People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever-evermore. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[BTC1]: https://digiconomist.net/bitcoin-energy-consumption

[NVIDIA1]: https://www.pcgamer.com/nvidias-mining-limiter-hacked-lhr-gpus-now-70-effective/

[NVIDIA2]: https://www.investors.com/news/nvidia-stock-wows-wall-street-esg-investing-fans-best-esg-stock/

[NVIDIA3]: https://militaryembedded.com/unmanned/isr/nvidia-hardware-partner-and-embedded-computing-supplier-connect-tech-acquired-by-heico

[NVIDIA4]: https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/industries/public-sector/
