---
layout: post
section: media
date: 20--
headline:
summary:
lindex:
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, I have an experiment today.

Some people say I talk too fancy, I use too many complicated words with complicated definitions, and I need to make my ideas more accessible, so, hell, I'll humor them. I'm gonna be tryin to explain the basics of my philosophy in as simple of terms as possible while also using the shorthand necessary to keep me from diving off into "reading the dictionary" level wordcounts. First up, I'll say what I am and what I stand for.

I am a Holist. Holism is the understanding that everything is connected, and that these connections form the outline of the problems we face and the solutions to those problems. This gives me direction. I am thusly a Materialist. Materialism is the understanding that the aspects of reality, the conditions under which we work, sleep, and play, are determined by the material world, what we see, and not the ideal world, what we think. This gives me method for understanding. I am thusly a Socialist. Socialism is... a little complicated to summarize in a sentence, so I should go over what I advocate for in calling for Socialism.

To start, Capitalism is a system in which the worker sells, for wages, their ability to work to owners, who sell the products of that work at higher than the cost of production, that is, higher than the cost of wages and the cost of raw materials and tools. The worker may live in a rich country or a poor country, but their relation to production is the same: a worker. The wealth of a Capitalist country is built on the backs of its own workers, as well as workers across the globe, as work is the source of value.

For our first thought experiment: Say the cost of cloth for a given shirt is 9 dollars, the cost of machine upkeep, thread and needle-wear, per shirt is a dollar, and the wages of the worker are 5 dollars per shirt, and the shirt is sold for 20 dollars. The shirt itself costs 15 dollars to make, but it is sold at a 5 dollar profit. Where did that 5 dollars come from? it surely wasn't the upkeep of the machine, or the thread or cloth itself, but the act of turning thread and cloth into a shirt. This is what we call "Surplus Value" or "Profit" and we think Profiting on the backs of other people who have no choice but to work for others is kinda slimy, and antithetical to production.

Production, as in the act of transforming raw materials into new materials, is most efficient when it is centrally planned, as can be seen with current supply chain technologies, but current supply chain technologies tend to leave us either with too much product or too little product to sufficiently sustain society, and as such, leaves us with a vast unusable wealth of wasted products, and empty shelves where vital products once stood. This is a failing of capitalist production, not a failure of central planning, as capitalist production denotes 2 main things:

1\. Increasing rate of Production in the form of new technologies. This makes the time paid for by wage more productive, and it makes the work done more fruitful. It also tends to reduce the actual number of employees, and enables work with less education or training, which reduces wages. This reduces the cost of production, which means more profit for the owners. and  
2\. Production for the sake of profit, or "profit in command." This puts production at the mercy of the market. This is in opposition to "production in command" in which production is controlled by the producers. This puts production at the mercy of the people.

Thus, capitalist production is both bad for the goose and bad for the gander, as the owner cannot stop competing for profits, lest the owner become dispossessed, and possibly made into a worker, and the worker cannot stop competing for wages, lest the worker perish from the evils that capitalism enables. These evils are things we are told are just "how things are." War, (Preventable) Disease, Starvation, Death, all of these things will exist so long as humanity exists, and serve as useful tools for culling the broad masses of workers to keep wages depressed. We do not need to die from exposure to the elements, we have enough houses to live in. We do not need to starve, we produce enough food to live on in excess, we do not need to die from preventable disease, we have some of the best doctors on earth, and more than enough people who would be doctors if it didn't cost so damn much to become one.

For a second thought experiment: imagine that the 5 workers at a shirt shop got together and used the value of their work to the overall business as leverage in negotiating better working conditions and wages. Say, instead of 5 dollars, the workers may make 7 dollars a shirt. The owner, on the other hand will still make 3 dollars if the shirts are still sold at 20 dollars and still cost 10 dollars in materials to make. The owner still maintains their existence on the fruits of those 5 workers.

This is the state of a Union. It's a state of interplay between the interests of the workers and the interests of the owners, but it is unstable, and has one major flaw: there are more people who cannot find gainful employment than there are jobs that pay anywhere near subsistence, and the union can only be as effective as its ability to resist being fired and replaced. In this class warfare, the army of the unemployed are used to reduce the negotiating power of the workers by threat of starvation, homelessness, and disease.

For a third thought experiment: imagine that those 5 workers instead got together and obtained 5 sewing machines, a bunch of thread, and a bunch of cloth. Same as before, they will turn 10 dollars worth of cloth and upkeep into 20 dollars. Per 5 shirts, one per worker, they would stand to gain 50 dollars collectively, where before they'd earn 25. In such a system, the workers themselves can determine their own working conditions and pay. The existence of such a system, even alongside capitalism, in multiple places across the US and the World, calls into question the utility of an owner, if not to be a parasite to the worker and to society at large.

This is the state of the Syndicate. It's a state of interplay between the workers and the market, directly. The market is based on the sale of products, products which are made by waged workers. If the wages of shirt-makers fall to 3 dollars, and the market cost of cloth has gone up, the Syndicate may not be able to compete, and will have to either sell ownership and become a capitalist business, or go out of business. Small syndicates cannot out-compete corporations, and as such, barely exist these days.

If workers from across the US and the world owned all of the businesses and democratically controlled production, that is, if we, as a society, determine what needs to get made and how, we will not have to deal with overproduction, overconsumption, or the evils that Capitalism enables.  
This capitalist model, the worker and their owner, has withstood the test of time over the past couple centuries, but it has not withstood the test of revolution by any method other than by stifling revolutionaries, and providing the survivors with bloodied examples to tremble in fear of becoming. Capitalism is failing, and we need to escape the ship before it sinks and kills all of us.

So, What comes next? As I said earlier, Socialism. We need the state of Socialism, that is, we need a system in which a democracy of the workers controls production rather than the dictatorship of the owners, a system in which needs are met by the collective product of our work and not by seedy profiteers and the banks and financial institutions that support them, a system in which we are able to do the work we desire to do and the conditions in which we work, and we work for ourselves AND each-other instead of working for those seedy profiteers and the banks that support them.

How, then, are we meant to live our lives in this Worker's World? In much the same way as we do now, only with better outcomes. in one case, in a worker's world, everybody works to support the doctors, and the doctors in turn work to support the sick and injured, our healthcare is quote-unquote "paid for" in advance by working for each-other. in another case, since everybody is working to support the house-builder, housing is paid for in advance by the work of all, rather than rented from a landlord or bought from a realtor. I can easily think of a hundred examples, but I will leave Health and Home as the 2 I use. This will remain the case until we can transcend the necessity for a worker-controlled society through wiping out the last vestiges of Capitalism from earth. At this point, we will no longer need the worker-owned and worker-controlled society, at this point, we will be free. I do not know exactly what happens after that, but I live under capitalism and can only see one step ahead.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:
