---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-02-20
headline: PE6500 and Inspiration!
summary: PEnnsylvania 6-5000, Telephones, Big Band Jazz, and the Holistic Strangeness of Inspiration
---

It's still winter, fibromyalgia still kickin' my butt, so I'm gonna talk about something frivolous!  
I've been watching a lot of youtube this past year, far outside my personal circles,  
and it's brought me a lot of Connections I didn't know existed within... Technology.  
But like, 3 weeks ago, I got kinda nerd sniped by a song in a Techmoan video.  
It got stuck in my head because...  

\*tape player starts*  
"\*phone rings* PEnnsylvania 6-5-0-0-0!"

Why do they say sixty-five thousand like that?  
Looking for that answer sent me on a bit of a journey, so pardon the scenic route,  
but I have a feeling you don't have anywhere to go at the moment, right?  

Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna.

The year is 1917, and a revolution is happening... in telecommunications,  
as telephone exchange operation is getting automated.  
No longer should WE have to talk to A PERSON through the technology  
to talk to another person through the technology,  
We should have THE TECHNOLOGY talk to THE TECHNOLOGY through the technology  
to talk to another person through the technology!  
...bit of a tall order, given the limitations.
the most pressing limitation being that of phone number length.  
To quote Engineering and Science in the Bell System:  

"...it was easy to determine that the growth expected in large cities  
would ultimately require a seven-digit number.
This had two disadvantages.  
Some tests made in the early 1900s indicated that this would be unsatisfactory  
because the short-term memory span of many people could not handle seven digits  
and many dialing errors due to memory lapse might occur.*"

Pin that, I will get back to those tests at the end

"This, in itself, was considered a sufficient reason for not using all-number dialing and,  
in addition, if dialing from machine to manual office was to be accomplished  
without passing the call by voice at the machine office,  
it would be necessary to simultaneously change all numbers within a city to the digital form  
as soon as one machine office was cut into the exchange network.  
This was an additional powerful deterrent.  
However, the solution to the seven-digit problem proved very simple when it was discovered in 1917  
by W. G. Blauvelt of AT&T.  
He proposed that positions on the dial be used to designate letters as well as numbers.  
The first or 1 position on the dial and the last or 0 position would remain unchanged.  
Each of the other eight positions would be imprinted with three letters as well as the number,  
ABC being associated with 2, DEF with 3, etc.  
The letters Q and Z were omitted because of their little use."

...yeah. it's that early.
footnotes sum it up pretty well here:

"After some 50 years' experience with this scheme, it seems so obvious that it is unbelievable  
that it took so long to invent and it is difficult to realize  
the tremendous significance of the proposal when it was made.  
Perhaps this is merely one more indication that the genius behind invention  
often lies in the ability to see the simple and obvious solution that others have overlooked"

Each phone number would be made up of the first three letters of the office name followed by four digits,  
this numbering scheme is known as 3L+4N or 3 letters, 4 numbers, for future reference.

"This meant that the information to be remembered in transferring from the telephone directory to the dial  
was very nearly the same as for manual calling.  
Aside from {cases of duplicate codes}, no directory changes were required,  
but as an aid to dialing, the first three letters in an office name were ultimately capitalized {in listings.}"  

This was revolutionary at the time,  
because it meant we could communicate more quickly by speaking to fewer people, oddly enough.

The year is 1919, New York's gettin' the upgrade!  
As with only 3 other cities, New York used 3L+4N notation, so perfectly in line with Blauvelt's specifications!  
So, to reach the BALdwin Exchange  
we dial B(2)A(2)L(5) 225

and to reach the PENn Station exchange aka "PENnsylvania"
you dial P(7)E(3)N(6) 736

The theory was that it would be easier to remember the exchange name than 3 random numbers.  
So you'd probably remember that newly built Hotel PENnsylvania is at number 5000  
easier than Seven Thirty Six Five Triple-Oh  
...but again, we'll get to that test at the end, but it's a helpful mnemonic either way!  

By the year 1930, New York City had to split off from Philadelphia, Boston, and Chicago,  
and move from 3L+4N to 2L+5N thus expanding the number of numbers per exchange from 10k to 100k  
while reducing the possible number of exchanges from 1000 to 100.  

But now you had these existing numbers from the... say, Pennsylvania exchange, where do we put them?  
Well, PEN is 736, so we'll put them under 6, and all the new stuff can use the rest of the unused space,  
0 through 5 and 7,8,9
Thus PENnsylvania 5000 became PEnnsylvania 6-5000

In 1940, a young up-and-comer: Glenn Miller, and his Orchestra,  
had played at the Hotel Pennsylvania's Cafe Rouge quite a few times,  
enough to write a song that would have a 12 week run in the charts and has now become an enduring jazz standard...  
about the phone number.

In 1947, the telephone numbering systems were more rigidly standardized,  
and area codes became a part of the number you could leave out,  
but we moved to all-number dial where the exchange names were dropped altogether.  
By a decade later, you couldn't leave out the area code either, because we had moved to "whole-number dial."  
So, Manhattan became 212, and Pennsylvania Hotel went from PE6-5000 to 736-5000, which is the number to this day.  

\*recording of Hotel Pennsylvania's voicemail, which starts with PEnnsylvania 6-5000*

That recording is from my phone in 2021.  
A song from 1940  
about a phone number from 1930  
for a hotel built in 1920  
That announced its closure on April 1st, 2020.  

Thanks for the century, Hotel Pennsylvania!  
Yeah, imagine getting a furlough notice on April Fools day during the pandemic.  
Talk about chaotic energy.  

This is where I'd do a big imposing shot up at the hotel, but I can't exactly fly due to, you know.  
Being... poor.  

...

anyway, so, uh... about that study:  
The whole entire reason the 3L+4N and 2L+5N numbering systems existed,  
the whole reason that song went "Pennsylvania 6-5000" is based on  
how difficult it would be to remember a 7 digit phone number, right?  
Well, to quote earlier with the footnote from this amazing book [I'm linking to down below with everything else][01] (01)

"Some tests made in the early 1900s indicated that this would be unsatisfactory  
because the short-term memory span of many people could not handle seven digits  
and many dialing errors due to memory lapse might occur.*"

*"Unfortunately, the documentation of these tests seems to be unavailable today  
and it is not possible to state definitely why it appeared so certain  
that seven-digit numbers would be impossibly long while present-day use is commonplace.  
it is possible that the interpreters of the tests placed too much emphasis  
on the difficulties involved in going from five-digit to seven-digit dialing.  
This would not be surprising since "human factors" testing of this sort is full of pitfalls  
and in the early 1900s was in its infancy.  
In a typical memory test, the digits are presented by voice, one per second,  
and there is no opportunity for review or rehearsal at the end of the presentation.  
This is a much more severe condition than is encountered in the usual telephone dialing situation  
where numbers are displayed visually and the dialer  
can rehearse the number until he is confident that he has memorized it.  
He also has an opportunity to refer back to the display during dialing if the need arises"

A bit presumptuous with the sudden gendering of the dialer there, but,  
this is why science needs to be tested more often and with less focus on publishing novel results.  
Incentivize study replication, y'all.

Bonus fact, by the mid-40s, Glenn Miller had an ailment that made laughter painful for him.  
According to ["The Great One: The Life and Times of Jackie Gleason"][02] (02)  
Miller and Gleason were working on the same movie,  
and Miller reportedly had trouble watching Gleason more than once because he'd always start laughing,  
and, you know, pain.  
Anyway, he didn't end up seeing his next contracted movie, because after that he went to war and died.  
Bye!  

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

Sources:  
Some Stuff from [Engineering and Technology History Wiki](https://ethw.org/Electromechanical_Telephone-Switching)
[(archived)](https://archive.vn/18rqA)  

[01]: https://archive.org/details/bellsystem_HistoryOfEngineeringAndScienceVol1/page/n591
[01. W. G. Blauvelt's Alpha/Numeric system](https://archive.org/details/bellsystem_HistoryOfEngineeringAndScienceVol1/page/n591) (text in article)  

[02]: https://archive.org/details/isbn_9780385415330/page/61/  
[02. Glenn Miller's laughing disorder](https://archive.org/details/isbn_9780385415330/page/61/)  
  "...Orchestra Wives, another Fox release, {and} the final film appearance of swing-era bandleader Glenn Miller,  
  who played, surprisingly enough, a bandleader.  
  (A couple of years after the film's release,  
  Miller was killed in a war-related plane crash over the English Channel.)  
  Gleason was cast as the bass player in the band.  
  He's not particularly funny on camera, but Ann Rutherford, who played the newest of the wives in the title,  
  told interviewers in after years that he was a riot off camera, keeping the cast aroar between takes.  
  Hollywood columnists, then and now a highly approximate equivalent to truth tellers,  
  said Gleason was found howlingly funny even by Miller, who supposedly had  
  a chronic pain in his side that kept him determined not to laugh."
