---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-11-24
headline: Crypto Was Imperialism The Whole Time
summary: pikashock.jpg
lindex: newsouth11
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, I made a mistake in my last video.  
I called it "Crypto Serves Imperialism" and... it does. I laid that out pretty well, but Crypto is not just servile to imperialism, In fact, it's neo-colonial, as defined in Neo-Colonialism: The Last Stage of Imperialism, written by Kwame Nkrumah. (KWA1)

In essence, neo-colonialism is the state of affairs in which a country is technically independent, like, in name they aren't a colony of any empire, but all of their finances and resources and frequently businesses are owned by corporations in imperial powers, like the US, the UK, that kinda place. Now, I'm not sure if anybody is currently being colonized BY crypto, but crypto is inseparable from neo-colonial conquest, and seizes upon extractive industries like a blood-starved lioness on a dying calf.  
Now.  
It's not like they're setting up new industries and mining for ore, but they are setting up big NGOs, non-governmental organizations, to oversee everything from carbon offset through seized forests to student data collection by a financial institution to vital records of marginalized people to currency in places that have had ... let's say issues with marginalized people recently.

[In El Salvador, President Bukele is begging for stability in bitcoin (HA)][ELSAL1] (ELSAL1) after [naming Bitcoin a required currency for all internet-connected businesses in june, to the protest of 95% of Salvadorians.][ELSAL2] (ELSAL2) This is all happening after uh... *sigh* the uh... council on human rights violations turned up quite the litany of allegations in 2020.
[to quote that report:][ELSAL3] (ELSAL3)  
"Significant human rights issues included:  
allegations of unlawful killings of suspected gang members and others by security forces;  
forced disappearances by military personnel;  
torture and cases of cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment by security forces;  
harsh and life-threatening prison conditions;  
arbitrary arrest and detention;  
serious problems with the independence of the judiciary;  
serious restrictions on free expression and the press;  
serious acts of government corruption;  
lack of consistent investigation and accountability for violence against women;  
and crimes involving violence by security forces against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex individuals. "
so, great. the bitcoin economy has restrictions on free press, widespread corruption, and an anti-queer, misogynistic police force with a lack of accountability and a disturbing trend of extreme violence at the hands of the military, which is being used as a security force under control of the police, sounds like home... uh, but the police have almost no control over the military.  
imagine that.  
Until I started researching for this video, I was slightly invested in an asset called Cardano, because I was told it might go places, and I don't think the person who told me that knew quite how accurate they were being. [Cardano's developers have recently shown interest in operations in el salvador following Bitcoin's adoption][ELSAL4], (ELSAL4) [but the main focus right now has been Ethiopia.][ETH1] (ETH1) now, I don't know about you, but ethiopia is in a civil war, which I think is a really bad position to be implementing an internet-reliant currency. in fact, only 10-15% of the population of Ethiopia even has internet access. right now, the aid that ethiopia needs are tools and peace, not foreign owned banking.
I have since sold all of my Cardano, because, oh my god, no, [we already got people drumming up for US intervention in Ethiopia,][ETH2] (ETH2) we don't need a part 3 titled "Crypto just colonized Ethiopia" or a news story "thousands of student records seized by United Nations Forces tied to ongoing 'unrest.'" It's not like I even had that much of it, but I felt kinda gross keeping it.

Speaking of which, what, exactly, is Cardano doing in Ethiopia?
Essentially, Cardano's developers will set up a blockchain database to digitally track students' grades and academic performances across the country. The developers also want to make Cardano the official currency of Ethiopia, before connecting the ENTIRE AFRICAN CONTINENT together with their financial and data infrastructure. It's fantasy. It's fantastical. It's completely unattainable. and it's absolutely moving forward with permission of the Ethiopian government.

I don't know how much damage will be done by Cardano, perhaps it will remain small and die, but there's a likelihood that there will be a private company inside the imperial core collecting data about students in the global south for at least a while. That's legitimately an issue. It may not sound like it, but the data you can collect about a student over their lifetime is absolutely priceless for any data mining operation. When that data ends up containing identities, such as in the Cardano Project, people are essentially required to sign away their identities to foreign private entities with extractive plans for said data, in exchange for access to financial services and the like. there are legitimate security issues around very sensitive data, and companies frequently end up selling the anonymized version of that data for what are known as "predictive products" like advertising. I can't know if Cardano ever intends on that data being used for that reason, but it's pervasive elsewhere.

There are claims that crypto will help the poorest and most vulnerable by giving them access to financial services, [but there's research done by Peter Howsen at Northumbria University][HOW1] (HOW1) that paints a significantly grimmer picture of the impact of crypto/blockchain projects on the environment and their attempted redemption through environmental capitalism and surveillance states, and it's these resources, and others, that draws crypto-colonialism to the shores of many a country to extract said resources. Quote:

"Blockchain is implicated within crypto-colonialism in three ways. Firstly, it plays into ongoing narratives of “green grabbing,” where local claims to resources are liquidated for green investments. Secondly, the technology perpetuates North-South trade and investment inequalities, and thirdly, a new power asymmetry is enabled by the technology through data colonialism and surveillance capitalism." unquote

We've already covered data colonialism, so, on account of Green Grabbing and Investment Inequalities, this is especially the case in the REDD+ forests of Kalimantan, Indonesia, where the Clinton Climate Initiative's Forestry program has implemented a carbon-credit scheme by limiting what activities local people can do, disposessing thousands of farmers of land in the name of environmental atonement. A token called Verde from Veridium Labs which is a subsidiary of Infinite Earth (no these names are not important to remember, just very funny to me) is to represent a REDD+ Carbon Credit, which would supposedly let people offset their carbon footprint with crypto. [Quote the ever-helpful Peter Howsen:][HOW1] (HOW1)

"The value of Verde will be derived from the [trading of fractions of carbon credits generated] mainly from Infinte Earth’s Rimba Raya forest in Central Kalimantan, [one of four REDD+ projects started with funding from the Clinton Climate Initiative]. Despite the coordinated appearance of this vertically integrated consortium, the Rimba Raya project office in Indonesia remains uninformed of this approach to trading local people’s forest resources. It is not clear how many [carbon credit tokens] have been sold. There also remains no plan to offer financial compensation to local people."

So they're not paying anybody on the ground, just extracting resources from the global south. essentially: the clinton climate initiative bought 4 plots of land to be forests, disposessing many farmers, and the CCI is using them to trap carbon. so we have dispossessed farmers in indonesia at the whim of the clinton climate initiative, and an unaccountable speculative system that calls itself green... it's literally called Verde.  

Well, at least it's doing something for the environment, right? Not really, no, because Carbon Credit Schemes have always had one unfortunate side-effect: people use it as license to keep producing carbon. [As covered by the UN Environment Project on Carbon Credits,][UN1] (UN1) offset schemes that allow the biggest polluters to continue polluting because there's "no viable alternatives" are not only not enough, but can actually allow corporations to drag their feet about meeting emissions regulations. The part that the coverage gets wrong is that there are viable alternatives in a lot of cases, but the incentives of imperialism push corporations to buy and freeze patents to keep the competition out of competition without having to change their bottom line, so new innovations frequently get ignored or killed, or they'll patent something related to their product and freeze that instead.

This is the same mistake that plagues the UN-backed "Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA)" in its mixing with the uh... 1PLCO2 token.
so, there's a UN-affiliated carbon-neutralizing crypto/blockchain project called 1Planet by a company called Climate Futures. (again, what are these names?) to offset carbon emissions by international aviation, and it's being leveraged on the backs of people living "near-carbon-neutral existences" in Zambia and elsewhere. Specifically in Zambia, wood stoves are being paid for by 1Planet's tokens to increase fuel efficiency over an open fire, thus implying that, rather than fixing aviation's fuel problem, they're fixing the fuel problem of people who were cooking over an open wood fire. Thus the presence of crypto-imperialism has taken its true form, manifesting itself through green capitalism. "DeGrowth" projects like Fox Green talked about in his Documentary on Consumerism and Degrowth, and Green Grabbing ventures both by NGOs and Private Investors alike are not new. This also shows that, unlike the high-minded ideals of an escape from the corruption that capitalism contains within itself, the reality of capitalism dictates otherwise.

It's not that Crypto has reached the stage of capitalism known as imperialism, it's that it's all been imperialism, the whole time. Crypto is imperialist because it conforms willingly to capitalism. Be as radical as you want, if your project's goal is to set up markets, extract resources, and impoverish the impoverished, your project serves imperialism. So yes, crypto serves imperialism, but all the more, it's a part of the rich tapestry that imperialism has woven across this planet.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[ELSAL1]: https://www.politico.eu/article/el-salvador-cryptocurrency-bitcoin-economy-price-stability-nayib-bukele/
[ELSAL1: Bukele Begs for Bitcoin staBility](https://archive.ph/S9yoJ)

[ELSAL2]: https://www.nationalreview.com/2021/09/bukeles-bitcoin-blunder-totalitarian-troubles-in-el-salvador/
[ELSAL2: El Salvador's President Bukele adopts bitcoin to the protest of 95% of Salvadorians](https://archive.ph/bI9qh)

[ELSAL3]: https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/EL-SALVADOR-2020-HUMAN-RIGHTS-REPORT.pdf
[ELSAL3: El Salvador 2020 Human Rights Report](https://archive.ph/4798W)

[ELSAL4]: https://twitter.com/staketoday_io/status/1409465563345207299
[ELSAL4: Cardano expresses desire to expand to El Salvador](https://archive.ph/RDU2X)

[ETH1]: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/cardano-plans-build-national-id-073828481.html
[ETH1: Cardano Reaches Deal with Ethiopia](https://archive.ph/mTZUF)

[ETH2]: https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2021-11-11/ethiopia-s-civil-war-is-a-problem-u-s-troops-can-help-solve
[ETH2: Bloomberg Opinion: We should maybe invade Ethiopia maybe?](https://archive.ph/zJQ70)

[HOW1]: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fbloc.2020.00022/full
[HOW1: Climate Crises and Crypto-Colonialism: Conjuring Value on the Blockchain Frontiers of the Global South](https://archive.ph/O6duT)

[UN1]: https://www.unep.org/news-and-stories/story/carbon-offsets-are-not-our-get-out-jail-free-card
[UN1: Carbon Offsets are Not our Get Out Of Jail Free card](https://archive.ph/LKSsR)

KWA1:
"
The essence of neo-colonialism is that the State which is subject to it is, in theory, independent and has all the outward trappings of international sovereignty. In reality its economic system and thus its political policy is directed from outside.
The methods and form of this direction can take various shapes. For example, in an extreme case the troops of the imperial power may garrison the territory of the neo-colonial State and control the government of it. More often, however, neo-colonialist control is exercised through economic or monetary means. The neo-colonial State may be obliged to take the manufactured products of the imperialist power to the exclusion of competing products from elsewhere.
Control over government policy in the neo-colonial State may be secured by payments towards the cost of running the State, by the provision of civil servants in positions where they can dictate policy, and by monetary control over foreign exchange through the imposition of a banking system controlled by the imperial power.
"
