---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-04-01
headline: An Invocation for a New South
summary: Strength In Numbers, Solidarity Forever  
lindex: newsouth01
---
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u4SYRJlCbZo)  
[Video (21.3MB .webm) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/8xw4wb5ksvu317j/2021-04-01-newsouth01.webm?dl=1)  
[Audio (1MB .opus) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/fcl53mkpbmjtpo0/2021-04-01-newsouth01.opus?dl=1)  
[Subtitles: (11.4kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](https://www.dropbox.com/s/pgiw7atx2b4gg94/2021-04-01-newsouth01.srt?dl=1)  

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  
We have had a harrowing few days.  
Do join us as we talk about the state of our union.  
the union in this state, at least.  
On our way to get our first vaccination doses,  
we spotted a "stop the stone quarry!" sign on some nice looking houses,  
so I joked "is that like, an environmentalist thing? or a NIMBY thing?"  

yeah, no, it's an atrocity.  

we saw this huge cloud of dust.  
we weren't sure if it was fog,  
or if there was a fire,  
and then BAM!  
10-story high pile of extracted granite.  
straight out of stone mountain's foot.  
so yeah, not fog, not a fire, just... raping the land for gravel.  
good use of natural resources, guys.  

My ancestors were a little to the west of here.  
muskogee, mostly alabama.  
this place has been in my family's life for longer than this place has been a country.  
and it's sickening to see it treated like this.  

the government is letting corporations take what's ours and sell it back to us at a premium,  
if we ever see it again, that is.  
god knows, that could be going to fill another hole.  
the Liberalists, the rich bastards who justify this pillaging,  
use placations about Commerce and Business and Money.  
I don't CARE about your damn money,  
I want you to go take that mountain and put it BACK where y'took it from.  
[Stop the rock quarry!][01] (01)    
Butts County, we hear you!  

We are the builders of a new south!  
the splintered collective of working Americans who watch this in horror,  
unable to affect change alone.  
Our power comes in numbers,  
in blood, in bone, in brawn.  
Reach out to your fellow worker,  
offer them a way out of work that destroys the land in opposition to the community around it.  
If they excavators stopped workin' tomorrow, they'd go home,  
and the business would waste time and money getting them working or replacing them.  
There is no simple way to help,   
but this country has shown us that it doesn't want us,   
so we have to help each-other and ourselves.  

The New South is no place for old ideologies,  
for old words and old symbols.  
The New South is a place for all workers,  
for people of all colors and all creeds.    
Nothing will stand in our way if we reject the bastards in blue who tell us they're saving us,  
and save ourselves.  
Democrats, Republicans, Cops, Owners,  
all just Political Fetish Objects trying to keep us from revolting.  
Trying to keep us from enacting change.  
TRYING to keep us from **acting directly** to **materially change** our **living and working conditions.**  

Our glorious leader, Brian Kemp,  
signed into law a bunch of voter suppression measures to secure his position in power.  
We frequently disagree with the rich pieces of shit in office,   
it's the south,   
it happens.  
In response, our groups filed lawsuits and have organized  
demonstrations, protests, and campaigns to fight back.  
And some director, James Mangold, is pulling his money out of Georgia to punish... Kemp.  

Let me repeat that:  
Upcoming Indiana Jones director, James Mangold,  
Thinks it's bad we're having our voting power suppressed by Kemp,  
So he's firing people who voted against Governor Kemp.  
Make that make sense to me.  

This is being genuinely celebrated by Liberals.  
Democrats.  
Biden-Campaign-Brain-Trusters.  

They Say:  
Good! More of this!  
It will lose the Republicans support, so the Republicans will lose next election!  
They Brought This Upon Themselves!  
iF yOu DoN't WaNt VoTeR sUpPrEsSiOn, JuSt VoTe ThEm OuT!!!  

Vote Them OUT?  

***VOTE THEM OUT!?***

Liberal Brain Worms.

Georgia can shrug this off,  
but the workers cannot.  
work with workers and try to do something,  
rather than just engaging in class warfare and calling it a boycott.  
There's a reason we decry "white flight" out here.  
Rich people take their money and go home because things look scary,  
and they don't want their money going to a scary place,  
and they take the paying jobs with them.  

it's a less direct version of [Keith Olbermann responding to Governor Abbot trying to open Texas early:][02] (02)  
"Why are we wasting vaccinations on Texas if Texas has decided to join the side of the virus?"

(God he's a dick.)

if James Mangold wants to actually do something to the leadership of Georgia,  
he could, I dunno,  
help organize protests at the capitol,  
a calling campaign, a letter campaign,  
paying workers under the table so Georgia doesn't doesn't see a dime, but the workers do.  
you know, fight.  
break rules.  
America is very good at Free Sounding Speech,  
but we are not free to suggest direct actions to better our situations,  
all actions we're allowed to call for  
are those done by representatives hired by the corporations  
which are making our situations so bad in the first place.  
so we have to break a few rules.   
That's life.

It's sickening how openly the Democrats hate southerners.   
It's sickening how openly the Liberalists hate workers.  
It's sickening how much work we need to do for their validation.  
We should throw them off our backs.

I tried to say this in my [first video](https://2019/02/01/liberalism.html), but it didn't seem to click for some:  
As long as we participate IN the market,  
we will be stuck with whoever has the most money's morality as law.  
Though the market may be free,  
under it,  
WE are not.

Georgia Representative, Park Cannon,  
tried to watch Governor Kemp sign the bill that would disenfranchise many of her constituents.  
[she was arrested for her efforts.][03] (03)  
That sure sounds like Democracy to me.  

Speaking of Democracy and Voting,  
[how about that Biden?][04] (04)  
I told y'all it'd would get worse.  
I told y'all that we would have to fight against Biden if he won.  
He and his crew asked us to elect Warnock and Ossoff to secure a 2000 dollar payout.  
And what happened?  
We followed through on our end of the bargain.  
Now we're gettin' 1400 dollars.  
And I know I'm gonna be asked to help again.  
I'm gonna be exploited by the Democrats to fight against The Republicans, and I refuse.  
Outright.  
If I'm fighting against the Republicans, I'm fighting against the Democrats too.  
Dems and Reps are the same.  
They work for the same people.  
They serve the same special interest groups.  
And neither work for you.  
I will never be able to talk to the people who I got to take time out of their days to vote in favor of that 2000.  
Ever.

Reformism is accelerationism.  
We must replace, rather than reform,  
the systems that separate us from each-other and our selves,  
because letting the trolley reach the switch is missing the point.  
Us workers need something better than these petty party politics.  
Pathetic parasites are picking fights with pest control.  

A New South will rise from the ashes of the old to throw out the parasites,  
to dump the bosses off our backs,  
to unite against yesterday's oppressors for a brighter South tomorrow!  
We southerners ain't stupid,  
we know what's happening,  
we know the people in charge don't give a single damn about us!  
We know they think we're idiots for "MaKiNg BaD dEcIsIoNs" like we got a choice.  
We know they think we're disposable because we're "idiots."  
We know they treat us like chattel because we're "disposable."  
We are not CHATTEL!  
We are not DISPOSABLE!  
We are not IDIOTS!  
We are WORKERS and we **DO NOT COMPROMISE WITH THE TERRORISTIC THREATS OF BOSSES!**  
We are ***WORKERS*** and we have MADE the decision to organize and fight!  
We have naught in common with the greedy parasite.  
Do they work?  
No.  
Do they pay more to themselves than to the people who do?  
Yes.  
In our hands is placed a power greater than their hoarded gold!  
WE have the power!  
*WE* should own the business!  
**WE** will not surrender!  
**WE ARE WORKERS!**  
***WE WILL BUILD A NEW SOUTH FROM THE ASHES OF THE OLD!***   
For the union makes us strong.  

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

[01]: https://www.jacksonprogress-argus.com/news/butts-county-closely-monitoring-the-activity-on-the-site-of-a-proposed-rock-quarry-says/article_d293aaf6-ff70-11ea-8600-b3ffeb57bdaf.html?fbclid=IwAR0CkU9ANaECHyR3c-PjcR1eSN8ki4IexuEDWdlYdT8z7hQPzRUy0Dp_Tr8  
[01: Stop The Quarry](https://archive.is/6jk4V)

[02]: https://twitter.com/KeithOlbermann/status/1366918063015268353  
[02: Keith Olbermann: Texans Don't Deserve Life](https://archive.is/bXJbE)

[03]: https://twitter.com/AriBerman/status/1375221522307104773  
[03: Park Cannon Arrested for Watching Brian Kemp Sign Bill](https://archive.is/VGavy)

[04]: https://peoplesbayo.net/2020/11/02/biden.html
[04: Biden / Voter Apathy](https://peoplesbayo.net/2020/11/02/biden.html)
