---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-10-21
headline: Structure Makes Organization
summary: The Tyranny of Structurelessness, and COINTELPRO
lindex: newsouth09
---
Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet! That's peoplesbayo.net! Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners, I am so VERY sorry to tell you that I was right. Sorry, it's just how the cookie crumbled this time 'round, and y' gotta move on. But. I told you so.

We've now seen the tyranny of structurelessness in action with this October Strike thing... or, sorry, Labor Movement X thing? Yeah, we have a lot to catch up on there. This does appear to be a bit of a pattern with the left in America, and I have done a little bit of looking into why that would be the case. Let's just say our gov'nment has some 'splainin' to do.

I am not old enough to make that reference.

In an article called ["No More Fake Strikes"][JB1] (JB1) Joe Burns goes into detail why strike-by-proclamation is a bad model. Everyone who has done organizing knows it's a bad model. The strikes are disorganized, the demands are frequently unrealistic, and they frequently just... don't happen. The only people who have faith in the american worker to, within a timely manner, have discipline enough to go on an at-will general strike are the people who have never organized anything larger than a BBQ, and/or that have a big audience to impress with their big calls for a big strike. I don't want to sit here and slander the people involved here, to assume conspiracy would be absurd. I just think that these strikes-by-decree are going to continue happening until the so-called spontaneous element is completely neutralized, and the organized element takes control.

Educate, Organize, THEN Act.

Labor Movement X sprung up from the October Strike because it was clear that the fully structureless movement wasn't going to survive. LMX has some kinda structure, I'm not interested, I wish them the best, but the people who signed on for the october strike are overwhelmingly uninterested in Labor Movement X.

So, after I put up my episode about the October General Strike, I got a comment informing me that it was no longer the October Strike, it was Labor Movement X. There was an updated set of demands, a removal of time table, and a consolidation of power within the friend groups that originally gained control over the space. This always happens with structureless movements and whatnot, because "structureless" just means "no formal structure," And structures don't have to be formal to have power. The problems with structurelessness are outlined by Jo Freeman in her article The Tyranny of Structurelessness, where Jo talks about her experience in the feminist movement in the late 60s, early 70s, written in 1971. Quote:

"
Contrary to what we would like to believe, there is no such thing as a structureless group. Any group of people of whatever nature that comes together for any length of time for any purpose will inevitably structure itself in some fashion. The structure may be flexible; it may vary over time; it may evenly or unevenly distribute tasks, power and resources over the members of the group. But it will be formed regardless of the abilities, personalities, or intentions of the people involved. The very fact that we are individuals, with different talents, predispositions, and backgrounds makes this inevitable. Only if we refused to relate or interact on any basis whatsoever could we approximate structurelessness -- and that is not the nature of a human group.
This means that to strive for a structureless group is as useful, and as deceptive, as to aim at an "objective" news story, "value-free" social science, or a "free" economy. A "laissez faire" group is about as realistic as a "laissez faire" society; the idea becomes a smokescreen for the strong or the lucky to establish unquestioned hegemony over others. This hegemony can be so easily established because the idea of "structurelessness" does not prevent the formation of informal structures, only formal ones. Similarly "laissez faire" philosophy did not prevent the economically powerful from establishing control over wages, prices, and distribution of goods; it only prevented the government from doing so. Thus structurelessness becomes a way of masking power, and within the women's movement is usually most strongly advocated by those who are the most powerful (whether they are conscious of their power or not). As long as the structure of the group is informal, the rules of how decisions are made are known only to a few and awareness of power is limited to those who know the rules. Those who do not know the rules and are not chosen for initiation must remain in confusion, or suffer from paranoid delusions that something is happening of which they are not quite aware.  
"[(Jo1)][Jo1]

Right now, the main subreddit is in a bit of a tailspin, because october 15th came and went, and absolutely nothing of substance happened. People afterwards got fired, so, it clearly didn't work, and everybody is trying to gain some control over the situation, but the lack of structure is making it difficult. Not the least of which is that the person who started the subreddit, handed it off to its own user account, and scrubbed their name from the discussion. and also the fact that the website now redirects to uh... the victims of communism memorial foundation... gross. The most powerful elites are generally the most hidden ones, because, as Jo Freeman says:

"  
Intelligent elitists are usually smart enough not to allow themselves to become well known; when they become known, they are watched, and the mask over their power is no longer firmly lodged.  
"[(Jo1)][Jo1]

The first person to post about the october strike in my notes here is named Twig, and Twig was recently seen on the Ivermectin forums advising people on how to cure their COVID, which is mighty interesting, so... this is not to confer the title of "intelligent" to the leaders of this group, but they are at least intelligent enough to pretend that there is no structure at all.

Quote Jo:
"  
Elites are not conspiracies. Very seldom does a small group of people get together and deliberately try to take over a larger group for its own ends. Elites are nothing more, and nothing less, than groups of friends who also happen to participate in the same political activities."  
[...]  
"Some groups, depending on their size, may have more than one informal communications network. Networks may even overlap. When only one such network exists, it is the elite of an otherwise Unstructured group, whether the participants in it want to be elitists or not. If it is the only such network in a Structured group it may or may not be an elite depending on its composition and the nature of the formal Structure. If there are two or more such networks of friends, they may compete for power within the group, thus forming factions, or one may deliberately opt out of the competition, leaving the other as the elite.  
"[(Jo1)][Jo1]

This happened a lot in the 1950s to 1970s, specifically it happened a lot until 1971, right about the time Jo Freeman's article got written, because that was the end of a program known as COINTELPRO (COunter INTELligence PROgram,) but most pertinently to the case of Jo Freeman, especially within the New Left and Feminist movements. Specifically, the Radical Feminist versus Socialist Feminist contengents.

On the side of Socialist Feminism, Roberta Salper was a subject of the surveillance being put into the women's liberation movement

"  
We sought to undermine on a local, state, and ultimately national scale the corporate and political forces in the United States that repressed women's voices and efforts to progress professionally and personally. In the FBI's view we posed a threat not only to male bureaucracy, but also to the engines of capitalist society. My San Diego activities, along with my attempts to give those activities media publicity, threw the FBI into high gear; I was truly a "domestic subversive"  
"[(Sal1)][Sal1]

I like Roberta. She's pretty cool.

The intended effect of COINTELPRO was to "expose, disrupt, misdirect, or otherwise neutralize" groups that the FBI officials believed were "subversive" by instructing FBI field operatives to:

1: Create a negative public image for target groups (for example through surveilling activists and then releasing negative personal information to the public)
2: Break down internal organization by creating conflicts (for example, by having agents exacerbate racial tensions, or send anonymous letters to try to create conflicts)
3: Create dissension between groups (for example, by spreading rumors that other groups were stealing money)
4: Restrict access to public resources (for example, by pressuring non-profit organizations to cut off funding or material support)
5: Restrict the ability to organize protest (for example, through agents promoting violence against police during planning and at protests)
6: Restrict the ability of individuals to participate in group activities (for example, by character assassinations, false arrests, surveillance)

"  
Between 1968 and 1973, the most powerful democracy in the world spent untold amounts of money trying to document that citizens like me were "domestic subversives”because we dissented from mainstream politics as we helped shape the early years of the women's liberation movement. [...] The immense surveillance machine that had as its goal to control"subversive activity," to stop people from dissenting, was and continues to be — the real threat to democracy, not the dissenters themselves. This system of surveillance deceives, disseminates misinformation and fear, and often ruins lives of its citizens all in the name of preventing the population from considering alternatives to the status quo. This was a moment in which most of us in the New Left (female and male) believed that battles could be won against the expanding corporate control of the United States. The multinationals were just beginning the irrelentless forays into the Third World ; we believed that if more people, in the university and beyond, understood the “imperial" nature of our democracy, it could be combated or at least mitigated. This was part of the vision that formed the backdrop for the formation of the first women's studies program in the United States.
"[(Sal1)][Sal1]

The class-based Socialist Feminism was suppressed directly, through surveillance, through counter-campaigns, and through the boosting of opposing groups like Radical Feminism. Radical Feminism is not concerned with class, like Socialist Feminism, it is concerned entirely with Identity. Radical Feminism, as written by Ellen Willis, "tried to make an end run around [the problem of class] by advancing the thesis that women's oppression was not only the oldest and most universal form of domination but the primary form. [They] argued that other kinds of hierarchy grew out of and were modeled on male supremacy-were in effect specialized forms of male supremacy. This idea has a surface logic, given that all the hierarchical systems we know about have been ruled and shaped by men.  
But it's a false logic, [...] and it leads to an unrealistic view of women as a more or less undifferentiated underclass with no real stake in the power struggles of class, race, and so on that go on among groups of men."

Radical Feminism was, effectively, harmless to the system, so it was boosted to drown out the real danger to capitalism: socialism. That was, after all, the whole point of COINTELPRO. Now, I could spend a long time talking about COINTELPRO, the Congress for Cultural Freedom, Partisan Review, and everything that went into fighting socialism directly, but I mostly want to focus on how COINTELPRO suppressed groups. Look at any psyop manual, but especially the Simple Sabotage Field Manual from the 50s, in how to disrupt and destroy groups. to stagnate decision-making, make sure committees are called for every decision, and make sure the groups are no less than 5 people. the more people, the less efficient the structureless group is. even if they all have the same task, without some form of structure, people will tend to shirk responsibility and not do the necessary work, or get into arguments because there's too many conflicting ideas.  
This is exactly the problem that Jo Freeman was talking about in the 1970s.  
As in, for the entirety of the COINTELPRO program, they used the same psyop tactics.  
The same problems I'm talking about with October General Strike / Labor Movement X.  

So what did they do, exactly? Just because these tactics were promoted by a psychological operation doesn't mean they're entirely invalid, it just means we have to take them with enough salt to stop hearts from 10 paces. [As talked about in Roberta Salper's piece on the program she was being surveilled for][Sal2] (Sal2), she was fighting in the same arena as the liberalists, who tended to coalesce around identity movements because they tended to have very little material analysis in place, and were more concerned with the nebulous "Human Rights" over the more concrete "Worker's Rights." The liberalists and the socialists clashed in almost every arena, and meetings turned into shouting matches, where the identity movements would yell about how authoritarian the socialists were being, they'd make wild claims that the socialists don't care about identity, that they're class reductionists, tankies, all that good stuff I've talked about recently. They railed against Unions, saying they were inherently corrupt, they railed against organization, because structure is oppression to them. Well. The liberalists were, let's say Encouraged, by COINTELPRO. These tactics have lead to the destruction of groups, the outgrowth of frustrations into more radicalized identity movements like the Exclusionary Radical Feminists, who reject Men, and Trans-Exclusionary Radical Feminists, who reject trans women because they think we're men. doesn't make sense to me, but I'm also not a psy-op. so... the FBI is the reason we have TERFs in such a prominent position.

We might be able to say that COINTELPRO ended in 1971, but the tactics never stopped getting used, and the intended effects outlasted their investment greatly. It's no wonder that we've been seeing an uptick in calls for arbitrary specific general strikes with no guidance, especially from the opportunist left. Middle-class leftists who feel that their anger is enough to command armies of unorganized peoples will pop up, slander structure, slander material analysis, and call for a general strike.

You know, it's hard to talk about the ways in which the US government has violently suppressed socialism, because it's so very violent, so very targeted, and so very clear that the people killed in the name of Freedom were the ones fighting for our freedom. you have direct police-involved killings like with Fred Hampton, you have the MOVE bombing, you have the assassination of Malcolm X and of MLK Jr, and then there's the less violent stuff that I'm currently talking about. The obsessive surveillance, the counter-ganging... look at the rampant spread of anticommunism during the COINTELPRO years, for instance! The biggest obstacle put in the way of socialism was the american left, which had been manipulated into complacency through lovely programs like [giving acid to the new left.][MKULTRA] (MKULTRA) and [sectarian comics in a fake underground newspaper?][COMICS] (COMICS) What a wild ride that all was.
thankfully, COINTELPRO was officially dismantled in 1971.  
...  
*clears throat*  
right.

The tactics are still in use today, the scale has never reduced, and it's super clear that it's still effective. The capital-state is a desperate, wounded animal that is bleeding out right now. we either have to hide, cower, and submit to the desperation of a dying system, or we can step up to the plate and put it out of its misery.

Go to People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[Jo1]: https://www.jofreeman.com/joreen/tyranny.htm
[Jo1: "The Tyranny of Structurelessness"](https://archive.ph/M3teQ)

[JB1]: https://organizing.work/2019/08/no-more-fake-strikes/
[JB1: No More Fake Strikes](https://archive.ph/3AUNQ)

[Sal1]: https://www.jstor.org/stable/20459215
[Sal1: Roberta Salper: U.S. Government Surveillance and the Women's Liberation Movement, 1968-1973: A Case Study](https://www.jstor.org/stable/20459215)

[Sal2]: https://www.jstor.org/stable/23069927
[Sal2: Roberta Salper: San Diego State 1970: The Initial Year of the Nation's First Women's Studies Program](https://www.jstor.org/stable/23069927)

[Wi1]: https://www.jstor.org/stable/466537
[Wi1: Ellen Willis: Radical Feminism and Feminist Radicalism](https://www.jstor.org/stable/466537)

[MKULTRA]: https://dissidentvoice.org/2016/09/how-the-cia-used-lsd-to-destroy-the-new-left/
[MKULTRA: How The CIA Destroyed The Left With Facts and Lysergic Acid](https://archive.ph/PEiy2)

[COMICS]: https://medium.com/discourse/that-time-the-fbi-created-a-phony-underground-newspaper-9cd32f5f65ea
[COMICS: FBI Sectarian Comics](https://archive.ph/QXW4j)
