---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-05-24
headline: I Don't Want To Be Locked Down Anymore
summary: You too? No way! Fancy that.  
lindex: newsouth02
---

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  
if you are afraid of agreeing with the honest views of a self-admitted extremist, turn away.  

Let's talk about COVID-19, Asian Hate, Lockdowns, and Democracy.  
First, Asian Hate.

[Youtube is currently doing a promotion of Asia-Pacific Heritage Creators, which is...][01] (01)  
I mean I love my asian comrades and whatnot,  
but doesn't this blitz of half-hearted outreach feel a bit... insulting?  
I know whenever they do this kind of thing for queer folks,  
they immediately drop the subject asap and pretend like we don't exist.  
I think that's gon happen again.  
if we do nothing to improve material conditions and continue to blame so much of this on people,  
I think the "asian hate" that they're trying to "stop" will "Continue."  
I may be wrong, but sure, if media narratives about how this virus is chinese,  
or about how workers are blaming asian people for the virus stopped being a thing,  
and if asian-americans and foreign nationals stopped being attacked for being of asian descent,  
that would be good, I'm sure,  
but I do not think #StopAsianHate will do jack all.  
Especially since the media surrounding #StopAsianHate does precisely nothing to curb the causes of Hatred.  
...
no.
it's not the hatred.  
that's not what the problem is.  
the problem is that class warfare is being blamed on workers.  
is systemic racism a problem?  
ha.  
ha ha.  
yes.  
of course.  
is interpersonal racism THE problem?  
no.  
it's just a symptom.  

the problem is that we are following the red cape of the liberal-progressive matador,  
and we're charging right into each-other as they ready their spears.

Here's a novel thought:  
stop following the outrage machine's insistence that we are each-other's enemies.  
We know what our enemies look like, where they live, how they act, what they say.  
We know what's in their bank accounts, with or without disclosure.  
We are not our enemy.  

I'm trying to work this thought out,  
because it's not super comfortable to just say  
"this is not important, this is not real,"  
when that's the kind of shit I had to tell myself over and over again just to get out of Ridgeview.  
This "StopAsianHate" shit ain't important, it's not real!  

you must reconcile the fact that racism is real and systemic,  
and that interpersonal racism is not fixable on its own,  
so it's not important to focus on.

system bad.  
individual is subject to system.  
fix system.  
got it?  

if you can reconcile the fact that the racism you see in people is not some essential property,  
but a learned behavior,  
with the fact that the owning class wishes us to be divided against each other,  
it should be extremely clear why racism is pushed as being an individual issue.  

it might possibly sound like I'm pro-asian-hate here,  
or like I'm being "Class Reductionist," (link to Inclusion Vs Reduction)
I might sound like one of the propagandists who push racist narratives,  
the lackeys who spread stereotypes and racist lies to keep us separated,  
I might even sound like the wacky anti-racist "language cop" who finds everything "problematic",  
but this fight is constructed from candy floss and tissue,  
fragile and insubstantial, spectacular as it may be.

"but if we ignore the hate, where's the racism?"
Well, for starters,  
a conflation of the social construct of race,  
with the observed characteristics of wildly differing ethnic and social groups,  
is a large part of it.  
the construct of Race REQUIRES Racism.  

are you white?  
really?  
What Does That Mean?  
where do white people come from?  
what do white people sound like?  
how do white people think?  

and here's the kicker:  
What do white people look like?  

I have a lot of irish in me, clearly,  
but under some definitions of old,  
the fact I have at least one drop of muscogee blood in me,  
I'm not White white,  
just extremely light-skinned.
Does that even make sense?  
No, it doesn't, it really fuckin' don't.  

ask yourself: Why was the construct of Race constructed?  
Why did whiteness become such a thing in the United States, of all places?  
in the Confederate States?
It's an attempt to reconcile the irreconcilable interests of the working class and the owning class.

[The Bacon rebellion is an oft-forgotten part of American and British history,][02] (02)  
where european-heritage indentured servants realized their similarities with slaves,  
and they united with the slaves to drive the monarchist governor out.  
the biggest problem that the rebellion faced, in my opinion,  
is that it was explicitly anti-native-american on top of everything else.  
Either way, the slave codes of 1705 placed restrictions on people of african heritage,  
these slave codes segregated whites from blacks,  
and it made 50 acres of land available for every freed man,  
which allowed them to keep driving the slaves and keep invading native lands.  
and then everybody died because it was the 1670s in north america.

As for me, what am I?  
I don't consider myself white.  
I don't consider myself irish or muscogee.  
I consider myself Georgian, because I was born here,  
I love the land on which I walk,  
and I will walk through HELL to wrench it from the cold dead hands of oppressors.  

"you can't just give up your privilege!"  
FUCK privilege!  
It's an outdated concept.  
It once had meaning,  
but now it's just trying to fit us into an even more complex hierarchy than we have with racism and sexism,  
just combining the fuckin' hierarchy!

PREACH UNITY,  
NOT SEGREGATION!

trying to digest racism as an individual problem is so fuckin' dumb,  
I'm surprised anybody bought it to begin with.  
I'm surprised *I* bought it to begin with!

[This, for example, is just hierarchical privilege thinking,][03] (03)    
which has been shown to be ineffective analysis.  

The rich mediaites that perpetuate this hierarchical thinking focus so much on Identity because Class is irreconcilable,  
and they don't want to take responsibility for the damage.

The problem isn't identity,  
it's identitarianism,  
which ignores class altogether.
what I'm preaching doesn't reduce all problems into class,  
I'm not the rare Class Reductionist you hear about, I'm a class inclusionist.  
If we don't consider class when talking about the problems we face,  
we risk pretending that any interaction in a capitalist society can take place outside of class.  
We can continue to pretend like the working class racists are the issue,  
but where did they get that racism from?  
who taught them that people of other races are the problem?  
who is telling them that we need to be divided against other workers?  
is it workers?
no.  
it's owners and their protectors.  
if the owning class doesn't want to take responsibility for their actions,  
that's fine, we can hold them responsible for 'em.

I don't think they want that,  
but I don't think they think they have a choice,  
so at some point,  
we have to force the issue.

if we really want to #StopAsianHate then we will have to do things that the promoters of SAH would not approve of,  
like uniting against them and ditching racism in the process.  
Who is with me?  
Who is with us?  
Why the hell are we still locked down?  

I am TIRED of being stuck at home.  
I bet you are too.  
Having to wear a mask to go into places so we don't kill each-other,  
while also having no plan for recovery,  
it drives me MAD!  
[They're threatening to get rid of unemployment protections in Montana,](04) (04)  
[The labor commissioner is Telling us to get a low-paying job in the middle of a PUBLIC HEALTH CRISIS, in Georgia][05] (05)  
Like, hey bud!  
people aren't out of the workforce because unemployment exists,  
they're out of the workforce because there's   
\*checks notes*  
a serious public health crisis we should all be taking seriously but the people in charge are  
\*checks notes again*  
fucking the pooch here.  
[Republicans and Democrats are opening up the economy bit by bit,](06) (06)  
but they refuse to do what needs to be done!  
They need to shut the machine down before it grinds up more corpses,  
drains our lifeblood another ounce,  
as it tries to control our every move and destroy us one by one or in swarms alike.  

You know what?  
Break the teeth of the gears so thoroughly that the machine never starts again,  
grinding to a halt with the sound of the terrified screams of owners and their protectors,  
gummed up works with blood and bone,  
and dismantled by "unskilled labor" and scattered across the sky by smoke and flame.  
We have to shut this down, by god, without the help of government,  
Without the help of people so in the pocket of the owning class that they may as well be owners,  
and the owning class themselves, deep in contemplation about what to destroy next.  
I want people to understand that we don't have affinity with the elite owning class shitweeds,  
and those who pretend to be workers,  
but have no intention on letting a worker's movement build.
Liberalism Is Not Socialism, it is not Communism, it's Fascism with a quieter voice.  
Liberal Democracy, Western, American, Capitalist Democracy, is a farce.
It acts to rob revolution of action,  
it acts to rob revolution of revolutionaries,  
it acts to suppress revolution,  
for the sake of Civility and Decorum.

What does it promise us?  
What good comes through Reform?
Token gestures, taken away by the next elected parasite.  
We need true democracy,  
a democracy of workers,  
not owners.

There is no room for workers in Liberal Democracy.  
There is no room for Liberal Democracy in a just society,  
no room for owners or their class interests should be made.  
the workers should be united in action against the owners.  
We need to organize, build robust structures,  
and follow through on plans made in organization.  
If you take the side of the working class, you are my ally.  
Your imperfections can be smoothed out in time, as can mine.
If you take the side of the owning class, you are mistaken.  
You will need to be enlightened to the error and consequences of your ways.   
If you are owning class and do not give up your position,  
if you do not join us workers,  
if you solidify your position that you should own the tools by which we sustain you,  
you are our enemy, and should fear for your life if you stand in our way,  
you are my enemy, and you will know that my name is the people,  
you will fall to gun, gibbet, or guillotine,  
you will fall by our hands.  

Reform is a farce, Liberal Democracy its jester,  
and anti-revolutionary thought its ultimate goal.  
"we can't just condemn the democrats!" I hear so often.
"we have to vote for them, because the alternative is worse!"  
I disagree with this assessment.  
Not because the Republicans aren't worse,  
but because the democrats are complicit in their abuses.  
They uphold a system and acquiesce in the name of "civility."  
You know what I say?  
Fuck civility.  
Fuck complacency.  
Fuck complicity.  
There are no heroes, no saviors, just us and us alone.  
Just us alone, and each-other.  

For the question "Reform or Revolution?" the answer is clear.  
The answer is Revolution.
I joke on occasion that I'm becoming more tankie as time goes on,  
but the reality is that I'm deeply disillusioned.  
liberal democracy doesn't have anything for me.  
there is literally nothing here for me.  
The only places I have anything are temporary spaces made with friends,  
with comrades, with fellow working people.  
I will never be comfortable in this society.  
I will never be respected by this society.  
I will never accept the rules of engagement by which liberal democracy stands.  
and I'm just fucking done with it.  
do I advocate violence? no, not really,  
but I do advocate for the use of force in its many many forms.  
if push comes to shove and I am forced to choose between letting bygones be bygones and violence,  
I will choose violence, every time,  
until capitalism is extinguished from this fucking planet.

My tenure marketing myself to breadtube had my comment sections like:  
"pls stateless moneyless society built on co-operative principles??"  
"no transition through revolutionary use of force!!"  
"only stateless moneyless society built on co-operative principles"  

"Read The Bread Book" they said, "Conquest of Bread!"  
Well, I did.  

"Every society, on abolishing private property,  
will be forced to organize itself on the lines of Communistic Anarchy.  
Anarchy leads to Communism, and Communism to Anarchy,  
both alike being expressions of the predominant tendency in modern societies,  
the pursuit of equality."
-Petr Kropotkin

Like sure, I think Kropotkin oversimplified some concepts,  
and like, the october revolution happened 25 YEARS LATER.
How does the book start though?  

"One of the current objections to Communism, and Socialism altogether,  
is that the idea is so old, and yet it has never been realized."

this is the OPENING LINE!  
IN 1892!  

ultimately, if you Read the Bread Book, you come to the conclusion that,  
whoever pulls off a communist revolution should have the next word in the conversation,  
and then 25 years later, a communist revolution spoke very loudly.  

basing a consumption demographic off of the work of one man against  
\*reads notes*  
oh an entire revolutionary organization is *very pointless* and we should consider *why* this whole project was so demoralizing.  
It's because it was trying to rally from the point of defeat.  
it's the philosophy of failure.  
What am I?  
an anarchist?  
a communist?  
an anarcho-communist?  
a communo-anarchist?  
I'm an "I don't care what you call me,  
do you understand what needs to be done?"ist.

fuck semantics,
ALL my homies hate semantics!  
if nobody else will,  
I'll make the organization,  
the people must be organized!  
are you IN or OUT?

I want people to get to that point and look to each-other rather than to strongmen and charismatic ladies.  
I understand the power of charisma,  
and I understand that as quiet as I tend to be,  
my voice does carry,  
on wind and airwave,  
by pulse of light,  
by electrons moving through copper cables,  
and I beg, of all who listen,  
to accept that the only things we have to lose are life and limb,  
and that that is acceptable so long as we fight back.  
if we do not fight back,  
we succumb to the slaughter brought upon us.  
I blame not,  
those who have been felled by this system for their deaths,  
I blame the killers and their tools.  
but we know the killer's in the house,  
we know where the killer is,  
and we know that we outnumber the killer thousands to one.

workers of the world, unite.  
you have nothing to lose but your chains.  

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[01]: https://imgur.com/a/9Vuq83A  
[01: Asia-Pacific Creator Bonanza Banner](https://archive.is/cljou)

[02]: https://www.nps.gov/jame/learn/historyculture/bacons-rebellion.htm  
[02: Bacon's Rebellion](https://archive.ph/PtYiZ)

[03]: https://twitter.com/DitchtheLabel/status/1389995906754355208
[03: "Ditch The Label" labels everybody](https://archive.is/EBdh0)

[04]: https://money.yahoo.com/montana-plans-to-cancel-unemployment-benefits-161755830.html    
[04: Montana Cancels Unemployment Benefits](https://archive.is/95ski)

[05]: https://www.ajc.com/news/labor-commissioner-look-for-work-or-risk-losing-unemployment-benefits/QG2BI5CW4RBMBMZSLACLW3UD34/  
[05: GA Labor Commissioner "Look for work" during deadly pandemic "or risk losing unemployment benefits"](https://archive.ph/I0dF7)

[06]: https://www.wsj.com/articles/u-s-businesses-are-playing-catch-up-as-the-economy-surges-11621000821  
[06: US Economy Is Reopening, and it Isn't Ready For It (WSJ, for example only)](https://archive.ph/PduiM)
