---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-06-19
---
## NSR 04: 1/6 Was a Success  
Congratulations, you and I are now maybe terrorists?  
That's upsetting...  
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()  
[Video (22MB .webm) {Dropbox}]()  
[Audio (1.6MB .opus) {Dropbox}]()  
[Subtitles: (kb .vtt) {Dropbox}]()  

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  
We find our circumstances dire,  
without even food or fire,  
all that we have left is shelter from the coming storm.  

The Coup, The Insurrection, The Capitol Riots, on January sixth.  
You'll see me refer to it as 1/6.
Let's go over the events in chronological order,  
starting before the riots, and going on to the mass arrests.

|
I need to go over the proud boys being lead by an FBI informant, so the FBI definitely had the names of most of the people they arrested long before they asked the public to help them
the sudden increase in people who claim to be leftists trying to show solidarity with the FBI, which is bonkers
that, whether or not it was intentional on the part of the FBI, is really disturbing
I think the actual riot was organic, for the sake of argument, because I can't prove otherwise
and occom's razor asks me to choose the simpler option
and if the options are "the FBI planned and started the riot" and "the FBI knew about and did nothing to prevent the riot" I'm leaning much more heavily on the latter
the statement I need evidence for is a statement of intent, and that should not be in the tagline
because I dunno if the FBI was like "nah, let this happen, we can make ourselves look good" in this case
I can just point to the cases in which they have taken radicalizing youths and set them up with bombs to arrest them and make an example of for the war on terror
that's really the problem with talking about systems, intent doesn't tend to really exist or matter(edited)
the material effect is that we went from police protests, to insurrectionist riot lead by an informant at the request of the president, to anti-terror law that classifies all direct action against capitalism to be possible terrorism
it doesn't matter who any of those people are or why they did anything they did
we now have that anti-terror law and hightened social media surveillance
that's not something we should really be okay with
the informant was leading the proud boys, and was picked up and dropped off the morning of the riot
the request of the president is something I should look into, because that's the popular media narrative, but I don't know what he actually said
|

I'm still upset with the people who were telling me to support the FBI after the capitol riots on 1/6.
[The ones lead by an FBI informant... right?][08] (08)
I'm not saying the FBI lead the riots, we will assume they were organic.
What this does show; however, is that there was no attempt by the FBI to prevent the riots,
and that they had a full list of names for the people involved in the riots,
but these opportunists wanted to take this opportunity to try to get the FBI on our side.
... the ... side of ... revolution?
That doesn't seem sensible.


Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

[01]:   
[01: ]()
