---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-09-11
headline: 9/11 Is Kinda Our Bad
summary: and we should never go back to Afghanistan
lindex: newsouth06
---

##	Title
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()
[Video (-50MB .webm) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Audio (-5MB .opus) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Subtitles: (-50kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  
Afghanistan is free from our corrupting clutches,  
perhaps they will succeed,  
perhaps they'll make us watch as they live without our greed.  
Taliban, Taliban, a conflict ensued,  
and we left afghanistan, as we s'posed to.  

A Video came 'round that y'all might've seen,  
it's infuriating, it's inflammatory,  
and the person likes to piss off people like ... me?  
I think?  

[Annoying Prick]:  
gosh what a fun weekend I'm having!   

[Luna]  
I would like to address this annoying prick,  
but I also don't want to make a whole video just about them.  

[Annoying Prick]:  
if you're one of those people attacking veterans on the internet for lamenting the fall of afghanistan,  
you're a bad person!

[Luna]
I watched it,   
you may have watched it,  
but essentially,  
the claim is that people should strive to use nuance when talking about afghanistan,  
and uh... yeah, that's what I'mma do.  
Let's Get... Nuanced.  

First off... I remember 9/11 too, kinda,  
I was 10, so I can't say I remember much more than the actual attack,  
but what I have is recorded evidence of how badly Capital wanted us in Afghanistan and Iraq.  
Afghanistan's problems didn't start with us,  
they won't end with us leaving,  
but with our absence comes the absence of our corrupting, venomous, vile influence.  
what corrupting vile influence, you might ask, well,  
during the cold war, we funded the guys who destroyed the rural schools,  
the Mujahedeen.  
boys were sent to extremist madrasas in pakistan instead,  
To quote from Anand Gopal's 2015 Book,  
[No Good Men Among The Living: The Taliban, America, and the War Through an Afghan's Eyes][GOPAL1] (GOPAL1)  
"
Washington financed textbooks for schoolchildren in refugee camps that were festooned with illustrations of Kalashnikovs, swords, and overturned [soviet] tanks.  
One such edition declared:  
"Jihad is a kind of war that Muslims fight in the name of God to free Muslims.  
If infidels invade, jihad is the obligation of every Muslim."  
an American text designed to teach children the Farsi alphabet began:  

Aleph is for Allah; Allah is one.  
Bey is for Baba (father); Father goes to the mosque.  
Tey is for Tofang (rifle); Javed obtains rifles for the mujahedeen.  
Jeem is for Jihad; Jihad is an obligation. My mom went to the jihad.  

The cult of martyrdom, the veneration of jihad, the casting of music and cinema as sinful -  
once heard only from the pulpits of a few zealots -  
now became the common vocabulary of resistance nationwide.  
[...]  
For three long years following the withdrawal [of Soviet Troops,]   
the CIA kept the weapons and money flowing to the mujahedeen,  
while working to block any peace deal between them and the Soviet-funded government.  
[...]  
[After the illegal, violent dissolution of the soviet union in late 1991,]  
Moscow and Washington agreed to cease all aid to their respective proxies.  
Within months, the Afghan government crumbled.  
The question of who would fill the vacuum,  
who would build a new state,  
has not been fully resolved to this day.  
"  

So we gave guns to people who weren't in power,  
we waged war on the government,  
and then we replaced that government with... nothing.  
I'll give it to us in 2001, at least we had a guy to put in power,  
even if, as I'll get to, that guy is a monster and should never have been handed power.

Do I think the Taliban is like, good or something?  
No.  
But they're also not a force of nature.  
They're human beings.  
Human beings respond to material conditions,  
political availability of amelioration,  
and the basic desire for dignity.  
They tried to surrender, man.  
They really did.  
Like... multiple times.  
But we'll get there.  
When the government fell, civil war broke out,  
the main forces are the Taliban and the Northern Alliance,  
and the Taliban essentially gains control of Afghanistan,  
at least to the point that they had a government structure set up by 1996.  

[In 1996, Osama bin Laden shows up in Afghanistan,][OSAMA1] (OSAMA1)  
as American intelligence attempts to negotiate with the new Taliban government of Afghanistan.  
Without an extradition treaty, the Taliban wants evidence that Osama bin Laden is behind attacks.  
One instance, the Khobar Towers bombing, is particularly striking,  
[because we're pretty certain who did it,][OSAMA2] (OSAMA2)  
[but US Investigators still think bin Laden was involved, without evidence.][OSAMA1] (OSAMA1)  
We continued to push the Taliban to turn over bin Laden repeatedly,  
but we didn't provide them with convincing evidence, so...  
[The Taliban, not convinced, refuses to extradite bin Laden without evidence,][OSAMA3] (OSAMA3)  
because doing so would violate their laws and moral codes,  
but they agree to put restrictions on bin Laden's activities,  
banning him from political activity,  
[though he still got some political activity done on american media,][OSAMA4] (OSAMA4)  
so it's kinda hard to deny our role in getting his propaganda out to his followers...  

then 9/11 happened.

In september 2001, the Taliban government of Afghanistan negotiated with the Democratic-Republican government of the US of A,  
and they attempted to negotiate turn-over of Osama bin Laden,  
who had been a thorn in their sides for many more years than he had been in ours.  
We said "Give Us Osama bin Laden, he did 9/11!"  
[They said "Give us evidence, we have been over this a hundred times, we won't without evidence."][OSAMA5] (OSAMA5)  
[and We said "We strike at dawn."][OSAMA6] (OSAMA6)  

I'm not saying that they would've gotten a result that satisfied our bloodlust,  
but he would've been held accountable for bringing the biggest military on earth into the fold,  
and it's very likely the Afghani forces would've ejected Al Qaeda.  
It's very very likely that the Afghani government would've exiled, executed, or imprisoned bin Laden,  
But we had to go and be the giant bullies we are and attack them with more force than they've ever seen.  
We gave them stingers to shoot down soviet gunships,  
[then we dropped daisy cutter bombs on them.][DAISY1] (DAISY1)  
[Bombs that have a peak overpressure roughly that of a tactical nuke,][DAISY2] (DAISY2)  
and were used for forest clearing in vietnam...  

To explain... why I think we are the problem,  
[I want to read another excerpt from a No Good Men Among The Living,][GOPAL1] (GOPAL1)  
but do note that things from here on get a bit gruesome,  

"  
Every night the planes would fly overhead without incident and disappear into the jagged country to the north,  
and the earth would tremble and the mountain peaks would light up,  
and Mullah Cable's men would watch and talk about the pilots and wonder at their motives.  
It was only after one bomb struck close to their camp, in a neighboring valley,  
that they decided to go see for themselves what destruction the planes could bring.  
A group of the fighters assembled to investigate,  
but Mullah Cable opted to stay behind because his last pair of shoes had worn down to soggy rags.  
“Can you imagine?” he asked me later.  
“We were out there fighting for our country and God, and I didn’t even have shoes.”  
For days, his footwear problem had been all he could think about.  

From his mountain perch, he watched his fighters drive their pickup trucks down the bluff away from the camp,  
then turn a corner and disappear.  
Over the radio, he heard them exchange greetings with another group of Taliban soldiers.  
At that moment, a jet shrieked past, turned sharply, and dropped a series of bombs just where they had gone.  
The explosions were massive and deafening.  
“My teeth shook,my bones shook, everything inside me shook,” he recalled.  
An enormous cloud of smoke rose above the mountains.  
All he could do was stand and watch.  
The walkie-talkie had fallen silent.  
He waited for hours for some word.  
Finally, he decided that he had no choice but to go see for himself.  
He drove into the basin and turned the corner and then stepped out of the vehicle.  
Oh my God, he thought, There were severed limbs everywhere.  
He inched closer.  
There were headless torsos and torso-less arms, cooked slivers of scalp and flayed skin.  
The stones were crimson, the sand ocher from all the blood.  
Coal-black lumps of melted steel and plastic marked the remains of his friends’ vehicles.  
Closing his eyes, he steadied himself.   
In five years of fighting he had seen his share of death, but never lives disposed of so easily,  
so completely, so mercilessly, in mere seconds.  
“There’s one still alive!”
He looked to see a villager coming toward him from  a clutch of nearby houses.  
Inside one, he found his good friend Khoday Noor.   
Mullah Cable took his hand.  
“Khoday Noor! Khoday Noor! Can you hear me?” Noor stared back blankly.  
His right side was paralyzed and blood was draining from a wound in his back.  
They loaded him onto a vehicle,but he died en route to the nearest town.  
“He was just a young guy, a conscript,” Mullah Cable recalled.  
“He had no reason to die.”

As he lay there considering the day’s events,  
he  experienced something he’d never felt before about the Taliban: doubt.  
Later that  night, news came in over the radio:  
after a day’s bombardment, 880 fighters were missing across the front lines.  
Eight hundred and eighty, he thought to himself,  
—what kind of unimaginable power was this?  
[...]  
In just two days, they had suffered more losses than he’d witnessed in the previous three years.  
He needed to calm down and  think clearly.   
The  trouble was, he hadn’t slept since the bombing.  
That afternoon he retreated to his bunker for a short nap,  
but still sleep would not come.  
Instead, he stared at the ceiling for hours.  
A few of his fighters entered with rumors that whole Taliban units had defected up north.  
He said nothing.  
In the evening, a message from supreme leader Mullah Omar, still  in  hiding, came by  radio:  
“The people are suffering, but this is a test we shall pass, God willing.”  
The test  was  from  God  himself, Omar said,  and  the  goal, he explained, was “martyrdom.”  
Mullah Cable simply couldn’t believe it.  
To defend his country he  would take  deadly risks, suffer cold mountain nights,  
go for months without his family—he would do it all, gladly, but martyrdom?  
Talk of martyrdom from a man in hiding?   
For reasons he did not fully grasp, the Americans were trying to kill him and everyone around him.  
The Northern Alliance was still trying to kill him.  
And now, he realized, his own leaders were encouraging his death.  
Then and there, he decided not to die in the service of hopeless causes.   
A thousand armies at Mullah Omar’s command could not stop a power like the Americans,  
not with the sort of jet he had watched eviscerate his comrades.  
If his leaders were planning to abandon him to such machines, then he would abandon them first.  
"  

[I include that last part mostly because Mullah Omar surrendered in December 2001,][OMAR1] (OMAR1)  
all he asked for was to be allowed to exit political life and let the new government do its best to rebuild,  
that's surrender, I don't care what bloodlust we had,  
and denying those terms of surrender means that we have no moral standing, on this day, 9/11,  
to pretend that the 600-something people who died 20 years ago would've wanted this response.  
I think very few people actually did,  
regardless of what polling indicated,  
because "military action" and "never accept surrender" are very different,  

We didn't wage war on the Taliban government of Afghanistan,  
we committed unparalleled wide scale slaughter of anyone associated,  
amounting to years worth of casualties per day,  
and we didn't let them surrender.  
Even after we secured everything we wanted to secure in the region,  
we threw them into blacksites and tortured them,  
frequently to death, and with no hope of escape except for insurgency.  

As written by Anand Gopal in his 2010 report:  
["The Battle for Afghanistan: Militancy and Conflict in Kandahar."][GOPAL2] (GOPAL2)  

"  
The main request of the Taliban officials in this group was to be given immunity from arrest  
in exchange for agreeing to abstain from political life.  
At this juncture, these leading Taliban members  
(as well as the rank and file)  
did not appear to view the government and its foreign backers as necessitating a 1980s-type jihad.  
Some members even saw the new government as Islamic and legitimate.  
Indeed, Mullah Obaidullah and other former Taliban officials even surrendered to Afghan authorities in early 2002.  
But Karzai and other government officials ignored the overtures -  
largely due to pressures from the United States and the Northern Alliance, the Taliban’s erstwhile enemy.  
[...]  
[Karzai's Intelligence Agency] targeted men formerly associated with the Taliban,  
often torturing them in secret prisons,  
according to numerous tribal elders, government officials, and Taliban members.  
Famous in the Mushan village cluster of Panjwayi district, for instance, is the case of Mullah Ahmad Shah.  
Shah, a former Taliban official and military commander who had surrendered,  
was at home in the early months of the Sherzai government.  
Karam and his men arrested Shah and some others on charges of having weapons,  
took them to a Kandahar city [Black Site] prison, and tortured them.  
Hajji Fazel Muhammad,  
who led a group of tribal elders from Panjwayi to the city to try to secure their release,  
recalled the scene at the prison:  
'  
We met them in jail and saw that their feet were swollen.  
Their hands and feet had been tied for days,  
and they told us that the prison guards would roll them around on the ground.  
They also beat them with cables.  
[The prisoners] were begging us to tell the guards to just kill them so that they could be put out of their misery.  
'  
Shah was kept in custody for about three weeks,  
until his family members purchased weapons simply to hand over to the authorities to get him freed.  
But the men were arrested again and Shah’s family was forced to sell  
all of their livestock so they could pay a bribe to the authorities.  
A short while later, Shah and others were arrested for a third time and held for 44 days,  
until immense pressure from tribal elders brought about their release.  
Shah and his brothers soon fled to Pakistan,  
joined the burgeoning Taliban insurgency,  
and returned to Panjwayi as Taliban fighters.  
Today Shah is the head of the Taliban’s main court in Mushan.  
"

it's our fault, it's all our fault,  
we decided to wage the cold war with extremist jihad,  
and we were surprised when extremist jihad continued after we left.  
no wonder the taliban responded to our invasion the way they did:  
we taught them jihad was the correct response,  
that cult of martyrdom, that hate of all media,  
then when they saw the power we had, they gave up,  
because it was too strong to fight against,  
but we didn't let them surrender.  
it was genocide, not war,  
regardless of your feelings about 9/11 or The Taliban.  
like, I'm not a fan of the anti-soviet, reactionary, theocratic Taliban either.  
however.  
What we did to them before this even started was unconscionable,  
what we did to them without accepting surrender makes our actions a war crime,  
what we did to them once we had already set up a non-taliban government is an atrocity,  
and this government will never be held accountable for it by anybody but the American People.  
Us.  

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*


## Sources:

[DAISY1]: https://www.globalsecurity.org/org/news/2001/011107-attack01.htm  
[DAISY1: US begins using 15,000 Pound 'Daisy Cutter' Bombs](https://archive.ph/pdAZ6)

[DAISY2]: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2001/nov/07/afghanistan.terrorism6  
[DAISY2: US Begins using 'Daisy Cutter' Bombs from Vietnam War](https://archive.ph/vB2RT)

[GOPAL1]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17454723-no-good-men-among-the-living  
[GOPAL1: No Good Men Among the Living](https://archive.ph/kijVh)

[GOPAL2]: https://foreignpolicy.com/2010/11/10/missed-opportunities-in-kandahar/  
[GOPAL2: Missed Opportunities in Kandahar](https://archive.ph/V85ds)

[OSAMA1]: https://www.pbs.org/wgbh/pages/frontline/shows/binladen/etc/cron.html  
[OSAMA1: Osama bin-Laden Timeline](https://archive.ph/gzKg8)

[OSAMA2]: https://www.britannica.com/event/Khobar-Towers-bombing-of-1996  
[OSAMA2: Khobar Towers Bombing (Britannica)](https://archive.ph/0nINi)

[OSAMA3]: https://nsarchive2.gwu.edu/NSAEBB/NSAEBB97/tal40.pdf  
[OSAMA3: Pretext To bin Laden Extradition Issues](https://archive.ph/52ywM)

[OSAMA4]: http://content.time.com/time/subscriber/article/0,33009,989958,00.html  
[OSAMA4: Osama bin Laden Interview with TIME magazine, one of many](https://archive.ph/mHneM)

[OSAMA5]: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/taliban-wont-turn-over-bin-laden/  
[OSAMA5: Taliban Requests Evidence bin Laden Did 9/11](https://archive.ph/KnB7J)

[OSAMA6]: https://www.history.com/this-day-in-history/u-s-led-attack-on-afghanistan-begins  
[OSAMA6: Invasion Begins](https://archive.ph/iyaQ4)

[OMAR1]: https://www.nytimes.com/2001/12/07/news/rumsfeld-rejects-planto-allow-mullah-omar-to-live-in-dignity-taliban.html  
[OMAR1: Mullah Omar Surrenders](https://archive.ph/7mdtL)
