---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-07-25
---

##	Organize FIRST, Do Action LATER  
the October Strike, the Frito-Lay Strike, and Organization vs Action focus  
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()  
[Video (-50MB .webm) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)  
[Audio (-5MB .opus) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)  
[Subtitles: (-50kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)  

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  
I smell a STRIKE in the air,  
action, finally!  
We will see how the Union makes us Strong, out in Kansas.  
We will talk about the So-Called General Strike, in October.  
We will talk about the Catastrophe of Mobilization, out at Blizzard.
But first, we have to talk about Education, Organization, and Action.  

As Jane McAlevey discussed in No Shortcuts, there are 3 main approaches:  
Advocacy or Education, Mobilization or Action, and Structure or Organization.  

"
Advocacy doesn’t involve ordinary people in any real way;  
lawyers, pollsters, researchers, and communications firms are engaged to wage the battle  
Though effective for forcing car companies to install seat belts or banishing toys with components that infants might choke on,  
this strategy severely limits serious challenges to elite power.  
Advocacy fails to use the only concrete advantage ordinary people have over elites: large numbers.  
In workplace strikes, at the ballot box, or in nonviolent civil disobedience,  
strategically deployed masses have long been the unique weapon of ordinary people.  
The 1 percent have a vast armory of material resources and political special forces,  
but the 99 percent have an army.  
Over the past forty years, a newer mechanism for change-seekers has proliferated: the mobilizing approach.  

Mobilizing is a substantial improvement over advocacy,  
because it brings large numbers of people to the fight.  
However, too often they are the same people:  
dedicated activists who show up over and over at every meeting and rally for all good causes,  
but without the full mass of their coworkers or community behind them.  
This is because a professional staff directs, manipulates, and controls the mobilization;  
the staffers see themselves, not ordinary people, as the key agents of change.  
To them, it matters little who shows up, or why,    
as long as a sufficient number of bodies appear —  
enough for a photo good enough to tweet and maybe generate earned media.  
The committed activists in the photo have had no part in developing a power analysis;   
they aren’t informed about that or the resulting strategy,  
but they dutifully show up at protests that rarely matter to power holders.  

The third approach, organizing, places the agency for success with a continually expanding base of ordinary people,  
a mass of people never previously involved,  
who don’t consider themselves activists at all — that’s the point of organizing.  
In the organizing approach, specific injustice and outrage are the immediate motivation,  
but the primary goal is to transfer power from the elite to the majority,  
from the 1 percent to the 99 percent.  
Individual campaigns matter in themselves,  
but they are primarily a mechanism for bringing new people into the change process and keeping them involved.  
The organizing approach relies on mass negotiations to win,  
rather than the closed-door deal making typical of both advocacy and mobilizing.  
Ordinary people help make the power analysis, design the strategy, and achieve the outcome.  
They are essential and they know it.  
"

that's kinda why the Blizzard employees have organized a strike around a single issue,  
[they are striking because of sexual harassment,][BLIZZ1] (BLIZZ1)  
but the problem they have is that they are not discussing unionization,  
they aren't looking at structured organization,    
they're looking at mobilized action,  
which can be characterized by apolitical “single-issue” campaigns,  
which focus on “winnable demands” run by a small group of people in managerial positions,  
rather than a Union of the workers.  

It's supposed to be "pragmatic" and "realistic" but what it is is "opportunist."  
Opportunism makes for weak demands and easy recuperation,  
and the professional staff dictates, rather than listens to,  
the concerns and wants of the workers,  
and will rarely get lasting results or any transfer of power.  

I hope this mobilization gives the employees motivation to organize a structure,  
and it doesn't get recuperated into a PR stunt,  
[because Blizzard has already hired a union busting firm to do PR,][BLIZZ2] (BLIZZ2)  
and they're giving the protesting/striking employees paid time off,  
[sending an email to sign the petition and join the protest.][BLIZZ3] (BLIZZ3)  
They're paying for advocacy and mobilization.  
They're crushing organization.  
They aren't stupid, they know what power a union has,  
they know what power can be gained through structured organization,  
There are literally Blizzard unions outside the United States...  

I'll be checking back in with this story once more develops, so best of luck, please unionize.  

There's been another strike idea that has been bubbling for the past month,  
the October General Strike,  
It garnered a lot of attention on TikTok,  
and a lot of people on Facebook took it seriously,  
and maybe some of those listening still do,  
so I should probably discuss why you... shouldn't.  

For starters, I initially asked "who is running this strike?"  
and uh... well... there's a problem there.  
[On the subreddit for the strike, with the user created to create the subreddit:][OCT1] (OCT1)  
"
People are asking what unions or other organizations are backing this movement.  
As of right now, this movement is grassroots, decentralized, and anonymous.  
"  
So, the originators of this are anonymous, the admins on the discord are roughly anonymous,  
and they have been asked about most of the concerns I'm about to go into,  
and their response has been...

"
Don’t let naysayers kill the momentum.  
The networks are there.  
"

...  
[with this picture][OCT2] (OCT2)  
...  
That's not a network,  
that's an organized movement.  
with protest organizers.  
and a mobilization-focused top-down organization running all official media for it.  
I don't think I need to go into how un-reformed the police are right now, do I?  
but the October Strike doesn't even have THAT.  

they have a brand new twitter account started in July,  
a private instagram account with no posts, follows, or followers,  
a gmail address for contact,  
a TikTok with no posts older than July,  
and a subreddit with no posts older than July 8th.  
No names.  
The reason I want to know who is running it is because I'm curious if they have ever studied general strikes before.  
As said by McAlevey, the Wildcat General Strikes were organized and lead by dedicated Communists,  
and we don't even know who these people ARE.  

How they expect, within 3 months, to have enough support for indefinitely not working or buying things long enough to get ANY of their demands met?  
They're asking for the world on a platter and asking anybody who will listen to stand in solidarity with a campaign that doesn't have enough information about:

Industries Involved  
Representatives Supporting  
Unions Supporting  
Staff  
Timeline  
Support for Strikers  
Anything  

it's spectacle and nothing more, in a society made from pure spectacle.   
it's fighting with other, much more well funded efforts to sell you cola and cars and prager U videos.  

I want campaigns to educate the public about what we can do today, and what tomorrow could be, but...  
Why I personally bristle so much at this campaign being taken seriously is because I've been doing this since 2007.  
I've seen it all before, and it rarely amounts to more than a:  
"do you remember that thing that we were interested in last year?"  
"yeah, that didn't go anywhere."  

we can't just act or react.  
without organization, action will fail.  
and with organization, sometimes you don't even need to use force to apply it.  
after all, you don't need to hit somebody with a big stick for it to back up your softspoken threats of action.  
you need to be judicious about when to threaten to act, and when to act,  
and you must be unyielding, because every body counts.  

We need Organization, Education, and Unyielding but Judicious Application of Force.  
Unyielding because strike breakers get the wall, this is life or death.  
Judicious because we can't just shut down literally everything.  
Not Use of force, Application.   
You do not need to Use a weapon to Apply it,  
all you need to do is hold it in your hand.  
Force, Not Violence,  
because we don't always need to cause harm to use Force effectively.  
There's legitimately nothing that can get between today and tomorrow if we unite,  
but we cannot unite overnight.  

This requires principles,  
this requires dedication,  
and this requires more than just a webpage,  
with contact info verifiable up to only the beginning of July.  
it's gonna be a no show, and it's gonna dull our senses to the idea of a General Strike.  
they rarely remember any of the information because this information is just insufficient.  

they need more information on how people who are not working are going to be supported during the proposed strike,  
on who will be necessary to strike and who will be asked to remain at work,  
on what economic activities should be halted,  
and more motivation than a set of bullet pointed facts and demands.    
If I were a more suspicious type,  
I'd say this is an effort to root out union-sympathizers to stop workplace organization in its tracks,  
but go off I guess.

like the website has a claim about how you can't be fired for striking,  
and claim there's no risk unless your employer acts illegally.  
and it links a 39-page explainer...  
which contradicts it.  
like seriously, YOU???  
and what fucking army?  
strikes work by voting for them.  
by being in a structured organization,  
and voting that you WILL BE STRIKING.  
there's fucking accountability there.  
there's fucking motivation to strike because you know you will not be alone.  
"what force on earth is weaker than the feeble strength of one?"  
If you don't have a union, even an unofficial one,  
if you do not have something organized,  
then you do not have a strike,  
you have a walk out,  
and you will be fired.  

If you don't have the structure for negotiations,  
you're just Applying Force to kill the business,  
and the police will be ready and willing to Use Violence to stop that.  

That's proof that they fear the Strength of Unions,  
but where's the proof that Unions Work?  
What's to say that the Structured Worker Organization model can succeed?  
Because it's not like Strikes are bad or pointless,  
but to get real concessions, you need structures with which to fight.    

At the Frito-Lay plant in Topeka, Kansas,    
the Local 218 Union has focused on organization,  
and haven't had a strike in nearly 40 years.  
They have about half or more of the employees as members.  
negotiations finally broke down because the business has been killing itself for the past 10 years,  
and Frito-Lay was bein' a crybaby about it,  
and so the workers did a strike.  
and you know what?  
it worked.  
they won.  

Why was the strike a success?   
[Frito-Lay claimed that the Union Leadership is "Out of Touch" with the Union Membership,][FRITO1] (FRITO1)  
this is a result of the Leadership trying to make a deal with them, and them not budging,  
leading to a dismal recommendation that the leadership brought back to the membership.  
Then Membership rejected the recommendation and wanted everything in the agreement PLUS the demands they made to begin with.  
the Union Leadership comes to the negotiation table to try to work out something that is mutually beneficial.  
The Leadership is not The Membership though,  
and the Membership has the power to say that they need More of the conditions met,  
not just A Few, to prevent or stop a strike.  
the union members voted 353-30 in favor of a strike,  
[and they went on strike.][FRITO2] (FRITO2)  
There was support,  
there were pre-existing demands,  
there was a damn good majority in favor of striking for those demands,  
and the calls for boycotts of Pepsico and Frito-Lay products came from the workers,  
and were very specific about the scope of these boycotts and the strike.  
They were fighting for a pay raise,  
because the pay had not kept pace with inflation in a decade,  
they were fighting for more staffing,  
because they were chronically understaffed,  
they were fighting to end "suicide shifts" that consisted of 12 hour days,  
because people were collapsing, and some dying,  
and they were fighting to get at least a day off work each week.  
as workers would regularly work 7 days a week.  
They set up a donations page to support the strikers,  
and they went on strike for 20 days, and they didn't cave.  
Frito-Lay eventually had dealt with enough slowdown that they felt the heat and caved instead
[And they won.][FRITO3] (FRITO3)  
The strike worked.  
remember what I said a few weeks ago?  
some of us will perish, but they need us,  
and therein lies our power, so long as we stick together.  
we have a choice: we can either stick together, or we can perish.  
for the Union makes us strong.  

when I say "strike breakers get the wall," I'm saying this is life or death for everyone involved, that's capitalism.  
well, everyone but the owner, unless things have escalated.  
if the owners start escalating then you have to rise to meet them  
there's no two ways about it, it's a fight, not an argument.  
there's a reason the anarchists showed up packing when they went down to haymarket,  
they knew the pinkertons knew where they were,   
they knew the picket line was shot down by the pinkertons.  
the reason I say force is because the problem with using the word "power" is that it is so nebulous.  
we aren't asking them to do anything.  
we're telling them how it's gonna go.  
they can comply or not, it's not their decision what happens  
once the chips are down, we either have to fold or call the bluff,  
and the bluff is that they can replace their entire staff in time to save their Profits.  
those who intend to fold need to be convinced,   
that's the job of education in organizing,  
as is one of the main roles of winning at the negotiating table,  
and one of the roles of a successful strike.  

This October Strike thing will be a no-show,  
you need more than a call for Action to do damage to capitalism,  
you absolutely need Organization.  
the october strike focuses on action,  
it HAS no structure,  
it HAS no support network,  
it HAS no negotiating power,    
so it CAN NOT apply force.  
it will fail.  
and if anyone DOES participate, they'll likely be fired,  
because oops, you just exposed yourself as a risk.  
we've been killing labor power for decades,  
and a big part of it is that there are basically no protections for workers or unions,  
so sometimes you gotta organize without the law on your side.  
you gotta be careful, of course,  
because you're no longer participating within the law,  
and the cops will be called on you,  
like the pinkertons got called on the strike before haymarket,  
and the national guard got called on the strikes out in Ludlow.  
but that's the thing.   
the owners will escalate without much hesitation to protect their profits.  
Even if what you're doing is legal,  
you'll get the cops called on you for being "too rowdy" or "unpeaceful"  
in keeping people from breaking the strike or crossing the picket line.  

So remember these principles for success:  
Education.  
You have to make sure people understand:  
what their rights are,  
what the proposed demands are,  
what the point of a union is, and  
what actions can be taken.  

Organization.  
You have to make sure you have people involved,  
you need to make sure that workers are being heard and feel invested,  
you have to make sure that people are on your side,  
you must build a structured organization, and  
you absolutely need to project a unified front in negotiations and outreach.  

Action.  
You cannot react to conditions,  
you cannot act without a plan.  
You must follow what you agree to,  
you must be unyielding,  
you must accept that this is life or death,  
you will be asked to sacrifice to keep the action moving,  
you will be asked to help provide for the more vulnerable,  
you will be asked to stand in solidarity against an unjust reality, and  
you will be victorious if you don't back down.  

Education, Organization, and Unyielding but Judicious Application of Force.

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

[BLIZZ1]: https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-07-26/activision-blizzard-staff-sign-petition-supporting-labor-lawsuit?sref=ExbtjcSG    
[BLIZZ1: Blizzard Workers Strike](https://archive.ph/jRDOK)

[BLIZZ2]: https://kotaku.com/activision-blizzard-hires-union-busting-firm-as-workers-1847386654
[BLIZZ2: Union Busting Law Firm Hired by Blizzard](https://archive.ph/YKwm0)

[BLIZZ3]: https://www.theverge.com/2021/7/27/22596957/blizzard-pto-sexual-harassment-walkout  
[BLIZZ3: Blizzard Email Encourages Walkouts with Paid Time Off](https://archive.ph/mRPsV)

[FRITO1]: https://www.wibw.com/2021/07/04/frito-lay-calls-bakers-union-leadership-out-touch-following-vote-strike/  
[FRITO1: Frito-Lay claims Union Leadership out of touch with Membership](https://archive.ph/f0CoV)

[FRITO2]: https://www.cjonline.com/story/business/2021/06/27/frito-lay-topeka-kansas-plant-union-local-218-vote-strike-july/5365737001/  
[FRITO2: Local 218 Goes on Strike](https://archive.ph/tPrxX)

[FRITO3]: https://bctgm.org/2021/07/24/bctgm-local-218-members-ratify-collective-bargaining-agreement-end-20-day-frito-lay-strike/  
[FRITO3: Local 218 Wins](https://archive.ph/OC7bx)

[OCT1]: https://www.reddit.com/r/OctoberStrike/comments/oicqrh/people_are_asking_what_unions_or_other/
[OCT1: October Strike on Leadership](https://archive.ph/D5gs9)

[OCT2]: https://www.reddit.com/r/OctoberStrike/comments/oqwoq3/dont_let_naysayers_kill_the_momentum_the_networks/  
[OCT2: October Strike Response to Concerns](https://archive.ph/EZrGd)
