---
layout: post
section: wip
date: 2024-01-01
headline: You Are Immune To Propaganda.
summary: On Propaganda, Media Narratives, and Framing
lindex:
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, why do we, as marxists, oppose terrorism?

Well, let's start by defining Terrorism. In simple: Terrorism is the use of force and violence to achieve political goals through instilling fear and, in many terrorist's eyes, inspiring action, among the populous.

the "Just Cause" of a terrorist action has no bearing on the material result: reinforcement of a system of violence upheld by violence, the system under which we live, so named Capitalism. Quoth Uncle Joe:

https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/stalin/works/1908/03/30.htm

  "There is no doubt that economic terrorism also has some apparent “justification,” in so far as it is resorted to in order to intimidate the bourgeoisie. But what is the use of this intimidation if it is transient and fleeting? That it can only be transient is clear from the one fact alone that it is impossible to resort to economic terrorism always and everywhere. That is the first point. The second point is: Of what use to us is the fleeting fear of the bourgeoisie and the concessions this fear may wring from it if we have not behind us a powerful, mass, workers’ organisation, which will always be ready to fight for the workers’ demands and be capable of retaining the concessions we have won? Indeed facts tell us convincingly that economic terrorism kills the desire for such an organisation, robs the workers of the urge to unite and come out independently—since they have terrorist heroes who are able to act for them. Should we cultivate the spirit of independent action among the workers? Should we cultivate the desire for unity among the workers? Of course we should! But can we resort to economic terrorism if it kills the desire for both among the workers?
  No, comrades! It is against our principles to terrorise the bourgeoisie by means of individual, stealthy acts of violence. Let us leave such “deeds” to the notorious terrorist elements. We must come out openly against the bourgeoisie, we must keep it in a state of fear all the time, until final victory is achieved! And for this we need not economic terrorism, but a strong mass organisation which will be capable of leading the workers into the struggle.

  That is why the labour movement rejects economic terrorism."


the reinforcement of the capital-state's grasp on the masses, the media, the monstrous spectacle before us, is not a good thing, and we should not be working towards that goal. Terrorism has no real place in a worker's movement, because terrorism serves capital.

Our opponents' footsoldiers, per se, are perfectly allowed to use terrorism to their ends, because their ends are the goals of the capital-state, the goals of the owning class. There isn't so much difference between terrorism and official violence in this goal, because both lead to a reduction in liberty for the masses

some accelerationists will bring up that this is, in fact, a good thing, that it will lead to revolution if we make conditions bad enough, but I think they underestimate how bad things can get before the population is forced to revolt. what we should be doing instead is building our own apparatus to fight against the official apparatus both with political power and with collective action to dismantle and outlast the crumbling state instead of trying to blow it up with molotovs and threats

I have a recent example that is particularly cathartic, so we will enjoy it before I ruin it, okay?

https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/08/us/madison-anti-abortion-center-vandalized.html?smtyp=cur&smid=tw-nytimes
https://archive.ph/Nzwhe

A molotov cocktail was thrown through the window of an anti-abortion group's offices in wisconsin and a fire was set elsewhere, destroying much of the office, certainly causing thousands of dollars worth of damage for ultimately not much effort.
okay, so, holy shit, right?

that's fucking hilarious to me, because fuck anti-choice shit, bodily autonomy is my favorite thing

but

take a deep breath, because I'm about to tell you why you shouldn't be celebrating

so, a few thousand dollars worth of damage was done to an office, and graffiti was left on the wall, reading "If abortions aren’t safe then you aren’t either." this is being called non-violent, somehow, because it's simply property damage, right? well, yeah, technically, that's all that it is. property damage for a shitty organization. why should we care?

well, there was a threat of violence, there was a fire that could've spread beyond the building, there was a threat of violence left on the wall, and, oh yeah, they implied that they'd attack the people if they continue to be the "footsoldiers" of the owning class, which is ... not helpful

this ultimately will not impact the owning class, it'll only affect those specific people for a short period of time. Look at the pictures, it's not gonna be impossible to replace what was damaged, and then there's going to be ever more scrutiny on the bodily autonomy movement in general

official violence and terrorism and unofficial violence and terrorism both serve the same goal: reinforcing the grip of the capital-state. I've said that a few times now, because I want to impress upon you how important it is that we do not do a terrorism

Propaganda of the Deed is an old concept that started with anarchist groups, but was eventually officially halted. However, that didn't stop propaganda of the deed type attacks from happening. These attacks would proceed as follows: an individual or group of individuals assassinates a boss or blows up a bank front, then they would state the reason why they did it, and supposedly it would spur people into arms alongside them? I have tried to parse Propaganda of the Deed further than that before, but had trouble understanding how it is supposed to win the public to our side.

Gramsci was an influential marxist writer, he coined and popularized "cultural hegemony" and is largely known for his cryptically worded texts written in prison. But why was he in prison? you might ask, and the answer is annoying. Someone from the party, an agent provocateur, or a complete fabrication tried to assassinate Mussolini, and Gramsci was arrested and thrown in jail for 20 years, even though he was a sitting member of parliament and supposedly immune from jailing. He was treated poorly, of course, and he died soon after being released from prison, from ailments he developed during his long imprisonment.

it was likely an individual or a small conspiracy, but conspiracies and individual terrorism are both ineffective ways of inspiring action, and lead to state crackdowns. Got that yet?

if not, maybe we'll talk about the assassination of William McKinley and the anarchist exclusion act.

In 1901, a polish immigrant and anarchist, Leon Czolgosz... (jesus I hope I pronounced that right) was inspired by a speech given by Emma Goldman, got close to the president, and shot him twice in the abdomen. The president died soon after from gangrene, and soon after that, the Anarchist Exclusion Act was passed into law. It allowed border guards to ask people for their political affiliations, and it banned foreign anarchists from entering the country. you know. The ones who are stupid enough to say they're anarchists to the border guard. This was expanded upon in 1918 to include basically anyone who was against the government of the United States. However, the department of labor refused to deport the bulk of the over four thousand communists who were arrested thanks to this law. in 1919, bombs were set off and mailed to the ruling elite, judges, capital C Capitalists, politicians in a co-ordinated effort by anarchist groups in the united states. in response, J Edgar Hoover was given power over the FBI, and in 1920, thousands of anarchists and suspected anarchists, including Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman, were arrested, and many were shipped "back to russia" or simply locked up. the FBI now claims this was unconstitutional and they feel vewwy vewwy bad about it, but, we know in the current day that the FBI  is grooming individuals to act on terroristic thoughts, and basically entrapped into doing a terrorism to justify their hold on society

It happened in Portland in 2010:

https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/was-fbi-grooming-portland-suspect-for-terror/
quote
  "FBI undercover operatives helped fund Mohamed Osman Mohamud’s would-be terrorism plot to detonate a car bomb during a Christmas tree-lighting ceremony on Friday at a crowded public square in the heart of the city.
  Operatives helped him find components needed to create a bomb and schooled the 19-year-old Somali-born man in how to set off the explosives.
  The sting operation enabled the FBI to amass a formidable amount of details about what a grand-jury indictment Monday charged was Mohamud’s attempt to use a car bomb as a “weapon of mass destruction.”
  But Mohamud’s attorneys and some local Muslims are raising questions about whether the operatives who posed as co-conspirators played their role too well.
  Defense attorney Steve Sady questioned whether the operatives were “basically grooming” Mohamud to try to commit a terrorist attack."
unquote

So they took this kid, set him up the bomb, and then prosecuted him for not rejecting what I would personally call terroristic grooming. This is a fairly common thing for the FBI, honestly, they did it to a schizophrenic guy not that long ago, 2017, and the FBI exploited his right wing bias and his MENTAL ILLNESS to manipulate him into a terrorist plot constructed and supplied by the FBI.
quote
  “The FBI knew he was schizophrenic,” Varnell’s parents declared on Wednesday in an open letter[:]

  “Underneath his condition, he is a sweet-hearted person and we are extremely shocked that this event has happened. However, what truly has us flabbergasted is the fact that the FBI knew he was schizophrenic. The State of Oklahoma found him mentally incompetent and we, his parents have legal guardianship over him by the Court. These documents are sealed from the public, which is why no news media outlet has been able to obtain them. The FBI clearly knew that he was schizophrenic because they have gathered every ounce of information on him.”

  Yet they knowingly continued to groom him, despite the clear immoral implications.

  When they began grooming him, according to the family, the FBI knew that Varnell was declared mentally unfit to live by himself and that he was a paranoid schizophrenic. Without their criminal informant and the FBI tactics playing mind games with this vulnerable man, the idea of him committing an act of terror would have likely never materialized.
  What the public should be looking at is the fact that the FBI gave our son the means to make this happen. He has no job, no money, no vehicle, and no driver’s license, due to the fact that he is schizophrenic and we; his parents do everything we can possible to keep him safe and functional…..  He has suffered through countless serious full-blown schizophrenic delusional episodes and he has been put in numerous mental hospitals since he was 16 years old. The FBI came and picked him up from our home, they gave him a vehicle, gave him a fake bomb, and every means to make this happen none of which he had access to on his own.

  The parents noted that during the setup, they suspected something was going on and Jerry’s father told the informant to stay away from their son. However, according to the parents, the informant “continued to sneak onto our residence. The FBI paid him to continue this operation and I believe they have cleared his criminal record.”

  Because they knew Varnell had severe mental disabilities, the FBI should have had stopped their plans to do this and immediately sought an option of hospitalization. However, they pressed on."
unquote

these people weren't violent dangerous terrorists, they were cajoled into action by the FBI
they were given the means to commit a crime by our state apparatus, and they complied with the orders of FBI informants and agents
the FBI isn't just complicit in this, it's fuckin' wholly responsible for this shit
and as you can see, they use this Terrorism as a ploy to employ terrorism upon the working people
crackdowns, new laws, patriot act 2.0
all of these things serve the state, all of these serve capital, serve imperialism
so if the state is funding terrorism, if the state is actively supporting the violence of individuals against private property, then doing unofficial damage against private property is about as sensible and effective at shifting our conditions in a GOOD direction as friendly fire.
that is, to say, official and unofficial damage is materially the same thing, and the ideal above the material is not necessarily important
so what do we do? what, instead of making conditions worse, can we do to inspire people to join parties, unions, and organizations and affect change, start revolution?
well, we can start by talking to them like people
and we have to overlook the little things, the bad assumptions, and make sure you're addressing the material conditions of whomever you're speaking to.  I'm not talking about politicians, apparatchiks, and propagandists, nor am I even talking about the nazis, I'm talking about normal, average people, who may not have the best assumptions or the best education, but are still people who can grow. "bigots who want me dead" will need someone a bit more dedicated to the person under the hatred than one would need speaking to someone who thinks "all this gay stuff is a bit too sexual" to themselves when they look at a queer person, yes, that's a bad thought, we should work with them on making it known that we don't want to be sexualized by the society in which we live, we just want to live our lives and hate our bosses for stealing most of our paychecks, and how that's the same struggle they have, almost to the letter.

Normal people want the world to stop being crappy, and they frequently just don't know how that's supposed to work, so they trust those who say they can. And well, normal people will look up to, or fear, somebody who makes a big spectacle out of trying to help.

"Normal people want the world to stop being crappy, but they dont have time to learn everything about it all works whilst trying to survive in this capitalist hellscape, so when somebody comes along with a solution or threat that fits their stresses they support them"

Normal people want the world to stop being crappy, but they're kept from the information needed to change the world by both capitalist propaganda, and by capitalist production. Not everybody has the time to read a bunch of stuff about what is to be done, so, when somebody comes along with a solution or threat that fits their stresses, they'll either support or fear this hero, this villain, this terrorist.

Just recently, there was a mass shooting in buffalo, and the mass shooter's so-called manifesto, (the document is not coherent enough to use that word, I'd call it a loosely-bound-together screed, a rant, an attempt to sew division,) was being circulated widely, and is still being speculated about all over the media while they try to place blame on the left or right wing of capitalist ideology, when the problem is capitalist ideology. This is why people THINK propaganda of the deed works to inspire others, it's because the media is attracted to violence, now more than ever, in trying to justify capitalism, and some people, I'm sure, will be inspired by this to do bad things, but this kind of terrorist is nowhere near a new phenomenon, and all of it serves to justify capitalist rule. Ditto on Christchurch, ditto on the screed, ditto on the response. In fact, much of the shooter's screeds are paraphrased or plagiarized from the ones from Christchurch.

hell, all the way back in the 1890s in France, to quote Gareth Jenkins on Terrorism:

  "Terrorism became ‘popular’ – not least because the French ruling class reacted so viciously (even executing those who had not caused loss of life), and because it seemed that someone was taking revenge on bourgeois society for its crimes. One terrorist, Ravachol, who bombed two apartment blocks in 1892 in retaliation for sentences meted out to May Day demonstrators, was compared by one artist to Christ, gave his name to a new verb (ravacholiser – to blow up), and had a song praising dynamite composed in his honour. The reason for such ‘popularity’ is not difficult to discover. Terrorists may have an elitist disdain for mass action and attempt to substitute themselves for the masses. But the masses themselves, in the absence of self-confidence and self-organisation, may secretly or openly admire those who appear to be able to do what they themselves can only dream of – take revenge for their humiliation."

Sound familiar?

It doesn't matter the actual ideologies of these twerps, they're serving capital with their outbursts of bullet and word alike. But that's perhaps typical of adventurists writ-large. they just want to make an impact so bad that they shoot right past "organization, education, action" and skip straight to "bring on the death and destruction!" If you're gonna fight the government, you need to have an organization, because without power, your outburst will get a couple copy cat killers, kinda, and then your actions will be remembered as the actions they were, not the statement you mean them to be. Not all organizations are going to be suitable for your action, though, as there are many throughout history that take this adventurist line, such as the Weathermen / Weather Underground Organization.

In 1969 on December 6th, 2 days after the murder of Fred Hampton and Mark Clark, the Weathermen bombed several police cars to show that this means war! In fact, on December 27th, the Weathermen held a "War Council" where they transitioned to the Weather Underground Organization, for the strategic acts of sabotage against the government.
in 1970 they officially declared war on the United States Government, and they bombed multiple buildings, but were also caught in the act with quite a large amount of high explosive, which, you know, might lead us to the events of 1971, March 1st, the US Capitol building is bombed, one of the bathrooms under the senate floor, but, as ABC said at the time "The damage would be worse if not for the 3 foot walls"
for one, god damn, that's a thick wall
for two, this took place at the same time a mass protest was building, a big show of power, non-violent power, that was disrupted by the blast's effects on the legal system.

ABC was crowing about it, and nixon actually used the actions of the weather underground to crack down on the anti-war movement harder, directly relating mass demonstrations with acts of terror from this adventurist group of hacks.

by 1974, they were suddenly calling for a unified communist party and study groups, which are good, but also, acts of violence, which are not good, as stated repeatedly in this video. So, why were the weathermen slash the weather underground organization adventurist, by my count?

Lenin gives us a very specific definition for Adventurism: small groups with no roots among the masses, and no serious or stable principles. These groups are frequently made up of intellectuals who find themselves among the workers and attempt to rally the workers around some adventurist project, a project without a mass mandate, a project without serious and stable principles, or to put it another way: Adventurism is the practice of organizing for ideals without substance, made up of a mix of idealist radicals and their followers, for the purpose of change. This change does not tend to come about, because without principles, and without working among the masses, one can hardly call one's project a "mass movement" which is what we need to be organizing. We can't just have terrorists organizing, building up power, bombing buildings for ... reasons, robbing banks for ... reasons, and causing a major crackdown on civil liberties as a response
the state, by the way, dropped all charges related to this incident in 1973, because they were using wiretapping without a warrant. I'm sure that's the only reason they didn't root out the weather underground's leaders for another ... 6 years  
and they turned THEMSELVES in
so, when it comes to the black panthers, a revolutionary marxist-leninist organization that built the first breakfast programs in america to help spread communist ideology, they were put down. forcibly. chairman fred hampton was murdered by the police in his sleep after a confidant drugged him. but when it comes to the weather underground, an adventurist organization that bombed buildings, stole from banks, and provided excellent justification for crackdown, well, their leaders had to turn themselves in ... after the charges were dropped against them 5 to 7 years earlier  
that's really what fucks with me the most here, the fact that power was being built, was destroyed by COINTELPRO, and in its place was left some wackos with explosives doing propaganda of the deed in the years of our lord 69 to 77

Fred Hampton's death was the stated reason that the weather underground went to war with the US, and they were talking about organizing white people to fight alongside the black liberation army. so they weren't at all on the wrong side of the battle here, they were very just in their cause, in my opinion, but, due to whatever misguided fool lead them to bomb places after telling the public why it's gonna happen, they slipped right into Propaganda of the Deed.

so I dunno, let's try to think holistically about this.

Argument: Terrorism works by inspiring the masses into collective action against the state
Counter-Argument: Terrorism inspires individualism and causes state crackdowns
Conclusion: Terrorism does not achieve the goal we want it to achieve, because in its attempt to inspire collectivism, it inspires individualist heroistic thinking, with martyrs and mayhem, which leads to further crackdowns on liberty and freedom to do the legal work, and make difficult the work that must be done outside the system. Catharsis is not good praxis.

the whole of the picture of terrorism is painted with the blood of so-called martyrs, and is on display in every public space, on the news, on the talk shows, in the water-cooler conversations at the office, the threat of terrorism is ever-present when it is used, because the capital-state is holding that painting in the air, the arms of capitalist control has formed the media into a narrative spouting machine. for ratings, for money, they will cover terrorists and lionize them, call them Lone Wolves, make out terrorism to be the ever present spectre of death around every corner, to frighten and disorganize the masses.

Economic slash Individualist Terrorism is a bad strategy, leads to suppressed organization, suppressed education, and again, very importantly: it leads to state crackdowns on peaceful protesters and dissidents alike. if we want to be understood by the public, we have to talk to the public, not attempt to terrify them.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:
