---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2022-04-15
headline: Let's Check On Joe
summary: Oh, Just As I Thought
lindex: newsouth13
---
Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners, subscribers big and small, the Biden administration has not let me down... in that I kinda called the shots back in november 2020
So, back in October 2020, I made a video called Reduction vs Inclusion in which I stated my principles, and how they are not Class Reductionist but Class Inclusionist. One must include class in one's analysis or it is an incomplete analysis. This does not mean class is the only thing that matters, right? this just means that anything in a vacuum is going to fall short of a holistic interpretation.  
That video. Got me. So much shit.
I was labeled a class reductionist, and I was labeled a ... tankie, which still confuses me to this day, and I was told that I was aping language from libertarian conservative and fascist narratives. I reject this notion entirely, but it followed me into my next video, Why I Don't Want to Vote for Joe Biden. In this video, I laid out the many shortcomings of Joseph Robinet Biden Junior.
I got called a fascist sympathizer and enabler for that video, I got a lot of backlash for what should honestly have been a pretty uncontroversial video. now, I knew some of that would happen. I planned the video to come out the day before the election because I knew it would get me more traffic. I didn't, however, expect so many so-called socialists to turn on me. all throughout the actual voting process, the counting, the tabulating, the sheer spectacle of it all! I didn't stop getting shit until it was clear that Joe Biden would win, and then I still got shit because I said "don't hate people for voting third-party"
so, let's check in on the things I was worried about and see how things stack up

First thing's first, I go through a list of things that happened under previous presidents, republican and democrat.
First, Democrat, [Bill Clinton, deregulated the banks further than they had been under Reagan,][CLI1] (CLI1) likely caused the [Housing Bubble][HOU1], (HOU1) where subprime loans were packaged together and sold as collateral, which lead to a lot of people who couldn't afford homes getting homes, being unable to pay, losing their homes, and the entire economy collapsing as a result
Under Biden, there is another Subprime Lending scam still going on, just with cars this time
As much as I don't like John Oliver on a lot of things, [I think he did a pretty great job with explaining the subprime lending crisis going on with cars:][CAR1] (CAR1)  The breakdown is that people are getting cars with a subprime loan, those loans are being packaged and used as collateral, and I think we can see how this pattern plays out, right? a lot of people losing their cars and the economy having another crisis.
Joe Biden could be calling for and implementing regulations on the financial industry, but he will never do that, because he's an imperialist. A finance-capitalist. I'm not an economist, so I don't know WHAT regulations need to be put on that particularly cancerous industry, but finance capital is one of the most deregulated industries on earth, and it's used to put people and entire countries in debt and ruin, for financial gain or for domination for financial control or quote-unquote "stability."

Republican: George W Bush, the sequel, took us to war with Afghanistan and Iraq. We now have ISIS. Also, [we finally pulled the fuck out of Afghanistan][AFG1], (AFG1) so I honestly think that's the best thing to happen under Biden

there's Public Option, still not on the table, probably for the best given the projections given by [industry professionals][PO1] (PO1)
(we need to completely discard and replace privatized healthcare, for one)
we have the Wall, which is currently costing the Biden administration 3 million dollars a day to not build, interestingly

next up was Prison farms, which are still ongoing, and I need to make a whole episode about that on its own in the near future!
minority rights... are under threat from reactionary politicians!
I will have a video exclusively about that in the near future, because holy shit, they're trying to terrorize us.
next up, supreme court!

after repeated calls to expand the supreme court during the election cycle, the biden administration is facing down abortion and minority rights challenges with this supreme court lineup

no matter who replaces Bryer, it's red af.

so if the Biden administration doesn't want to expand the court, and the conservative bellows of reaction hit a fever pitch, how does this admin protect minorities, with a solid anti-minority possible outcome waiting for anything that gets high enough in the courts?

well, [they're supposedly going to be using Health and Human Services to combat the anti-trans directive in Texas][HHS1], (HHS1) which is nice, and it looks like there's some support for trans teens in Texas from the legal and health industries. As for abortion access? Joe Biden has put out 2 statements about the texas 6 week ban, 224 days into the presidency, and another statement on International Women's Day. That's the only time he's even said the word Abortion, [and both were written statements.][AB1] (AB1)

quote Aimee Arrambide:
“The least President Biden could do is name the constitutional right and essential health care that has been stripped away from millions of people. His reluctance to do so not only further stigmatizes abortion care and the 1 in 4 people who will need abortion care in their lifetime, but allows these egregious laws to spread across the country.”
unquote

so that ties back into the minority rights thing, right? under Biden, we are faced with more challenges than we faced under even Trump, and I don't personally believe the administration is equipped to withstand the forces of reaction.

https://t.co/m8Psk0wIDB  

Police brutality, I've not done an episode on police brutality in a while. The last time I talked about it was in june of 2020, back amidst the BLM protests and all that jazz. So, how has police brutality improved?

well, here's the thing: it hasn't.

aside from 2018, police brutality has been worse than any year in the past decade. 2020 is barely behind it though. 1134 people were killed by police in 2021 alone, and that's just one metric that contextualizes the rest of the report. police killed 3.1 people a day in 2021, that's absurd. Police brutality has one thing in common: the police. The institution of protecting the capital-state. The people in charge of protecting the resources of the owning class from the grubby mitts of the dirty working class. That hasn't changed under Joe, so, the brutality rate hasn't changed either.




starting with the Defund The Police thing that was trending in 2020. As I said before, the reformists took that phrase, chopped it down, and destroyed the original intent which was "less policing, more civil services"

[Nancy Pelosi has recently denounced the movement publicly:][PE1] (PE1)
quote
“Well, with all the respect in the world for Cori Bush, that is not the position of the Democratic Party,” Pelosi said during an appearance on ABC’s This Week. “Community safety, to protect and defend in every way, is our oath of office. And I have sympathy — I — we’re all concerned about mistreatment of people.”  
unquote
Look, as far as the phrasing "abolish the police" or "defund the police" or whatever, I don't think it's a particularly helpful or descriptive phrase, but let's just say it's a perfectly understandable and clear proposal, what has the democratic party said about the movement in the past? well, I haven't mentioned Kamala Harris yet, so:  
Vice President Kamala Harris was also sympathetic to the movement in June 2020 when she was asked by ABC’s George Stephanopoulos if she supports proposals to re-appropriate police funding, including a proposal in Los Angeles at the time to divert $150 million from the police budget into other community priorities.

“I support investing in communities so that they become more healthy and therefore more safe. Right now what we’re seeing in America is many cities spend over one-third of their entire city budget on policing. But meanwhile we’ve been defunding public schools for years in America, we’ve got to reexamine what we’re doing with Americans’ taxpayer dollars, and ask the question are we getting the right return on our investment? Are we actually creating healthy and safe communities?”

that coming from kamala "prosecute truancy" harris is really funny, but also, indicative of the democrats' two-faced rhetoric
the democrats are very good at lying, you see. or, I should say, they really like lying? they're not actually any good at it.the only people who are fooled are the people who were fooled to begin with. you know, liberals.

[the Biden administration has kept the Trump era ICE budget hike, too, allocating 8 billion dollars for ICE discretionary spending.][BU1] (BU1) a notable 400 million dollars less in custody operations, and a notable 100 million increase in domestic investigations.


the Biden administration is following that lead, because even after committing to police reform in 2021, the 2023 budget includes more than 30 billion dollars to aid in combating crime, especially violent crime... where have we heard that before?

Biden (1994 Crime Bill Speech): "I'm the guy who said: When rehabilitation occurs, we don't notice it, and when we do notice it and we know it occurs, we don't know why, so you cannot make rehabilitation a condition of release. That's why in our system, in the federal system, you serve 85% of your time. I know what was going on in the late 70s, they used to call it Biden's Same Time For The Same Crime provision. It's a shame, but we don't know how to rehabilitate. But there is a consensus, and I will cease, A. We must make the streets Safer. I don't care WHY somebody is a malefactor in society, I don't care WHY someone is anti-social, I don't care WHY they become a sociopath, we have an obligation to cordon them off from the rest of society. Try to help them, Try to change the behavior, that's what we do in this bill, we have drug treatment and other treatments to try to deal with it but they are IN JAIL. Away from my mother, your husband, our families."

Biden's always been on this Violent Crime bent, and it's oddly never about protecting civilians from state violence. Weird, that. [The last time there was a Biden initiative on Violent Crime, we ended up jailing more minorities than we had before.][94] (94)
So, that's kind-of a lost cause

he also talked on the senate floor about cutting public services like Medicare, allowing the private sector more control over healthcare, and one of the biggest privatization schemes is going on under Biden, in fact... it's accelerating. [Under Trump HHS, the Medicare Direct Contracting program was created.][DC1] Direct Contracting Entities (DCEs) are middlemen between the government and the beneficiary that have a profit incentive to deny or limit care. So, much like a private insurer, because that's what it is. If you go to a doctor that is under a participating DCE, you will very likely be auto-enrolled in that DCE without your knowledge or informed consent. So, do you need to be an insurer to be a DCE? Does congress have oversight over this process? No and no. "well that's okay" you might say "Trump's not in office anymore, so this privatization scheme is toast, right?" wrong, apparently. [one DCE, Clover Health, spent 1.5 million on Democratic PACs to help secure their existence in the DNC platform.][JA1] (JA1)


quote
"Sullivan pointed out that the publicly traded DCEs, [...], brag in investor filings that between 13 and 30 percent of the money they get from Medicare goes into profits. By comparison, [...] traditional Medicare plans have overhead of 2%"
unquote

Medicare is a public program, it shouldn't be pillaged and gutted by the private sector. A vast majority of medicare recipients are very pleased with medicare as it exists. the Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey shows 94% satisfaction with Medicare
https://cms.gov/research-statistics-data-and-systems/downloadable-public-use-files/mcbs-public-use-file
So, right now, 30 Million elderly and disabled people, half of medicare recipients, are at risk of having their Medicare cases picked up by a group of venture capitalists with no incentive to provide care.

With no oversight. And it's expanding under Joe Biden.

ooh, I talk about anti-fascism at this point... hmm. a lot of supposed anti-fascists, a lot of the same so-called socialists I mentioned earlier, fuckin' blew UP at me after january 6th. why? why was I being called a fascist sympathizer this time? because I was principled with my stance "no snitching." at the time I still played around with the label "Anarchist" but I've since been referring to myself as a Holist because of my experiences of trying to be a principled anarchist. it seems to piss off unprincipled charlatans when someone shows up with principles and performs them in the times when it's hard to perform them.

you think I want to see some crackdown on a bunch of idiots? that sounds fun, right? big ol witch hunt! peoples' lives disrupted for being associated with a publicity stunt that went pretty much exactly how it was supposed to. and they blamed Trump, right? Trump did it, that's why those FBI informants rushed the capital, yup, that's why. [No way in hell it was planned out in advance by a shell operation that bussed people, including FBI informants I must remind you, into the capitol to stage a demonstration inside the capital!][CAP1] Yeah!



so, sarcasm aside, why don't they prosecute him, then? why are the only people being punished the ones who, in the shielded eyes of liberals, blindly followed the orders of the president to do an insurrection and take over the government or whatever? isn't that putting the punishment and the blame in different places? Otherwise, they're saying that these people imagined a trump that told them to storm the capital and that trump is the one they're prosecuting, the one in their heads? I have no idea.

right now, there's nothing keeping Trump from running in 2024, so Champ, there's a Fascist in the white house, and the old fascist can still get elected. god help us all if that happens, who knows what insufferable late night comedy we'll get.

the last point I have here is the Post Office, so, the postmaster general, DeJoy, has been a thorn in the side of the USPS for the past couple years, after being elected by the 6 board members of the postal governors' board. there are 5 vacancies on that board, so, Biden could be backing up its "implement emissions reduction" with "because we're gonna fucking replace you" if they would fill 'em, and so [DeJoy, the man behind the mail-in ballot delays][DE1], (DE1) remains in a position of power, [rejecting calls to electrify the USPS and moving forward with a renewed gasoline-powered fleet][DE2] (DE2)

Democrats are really good at one thing, I tell you what: Not Filling Slots That Need To Be Filled. anyway, then I finish off with a "talk to your neighbors, build community" and at the end of my credits, I told people that I did, in fact, vote for Joe Biden. Just to shut people up in advance.

I knew they wouldn't get that far into the video though, but kayfabe.

anyway, that's really all I've got for right now. I'm working on another video that took a lot out of me, so this was a pleasant nightmare to indulge in. it looks like I was right in a lot of ways about how this presidency was gonna play out, so let me make one more prediction: If Trump is able to run in 2024, he will win. If the GOP can put up a Trump to Biden's... Biden, they will win. Biden is a one-term president who is a stop-gap between rampant reaction and rampant reaction, which is what we're gonna talk about next time

so subscribe and go to peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcripts, as well as ways to fund this operation. to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever


✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[CLI1]: https://predatorylending.duke.edu/legislation-deprecated/legislative-memos/the-financial-services-modernization-act-of-1999/  
[CLI1: Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 deregulates further than under reagan](https://archive.ph/px8Dm)

[HOU1]: https://knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu/article/housing-bubble-real-causes/  
[HOU1: Housing Bubble Real Causes](https://archive.ph/TyW5F)

[CAR1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4U2eDJnwz_s  
[CAR1: John Oliver Explains Car Crisis (Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4U2eDJnwz_s)

[AFG1]: https://www.cnn.com/2021/08/30/politics/us-military-withdraws-afghanistan/index.html  
[AFG1: US Withdraws From Afghanistan](https://archive.ph/b6xYN)

[PO1]: https://www.healthline.com/health/medicare/medicare-for-all-vs-public-option  
[PO1: Medicare for All vs Public Option](https://archive.ph/UHZrn)

[HHS1]: https://news.yahoo.com/biden-puts-texas-notice-over-053302443.html   
[HHS1: Biden Admin Uses HHS to Combat Anti-Trans Directive](https://archive.ph/0L0du)

[AB1]: https://www.huffpost.com/entry/hundreds-people-abortions-biden_n_622a12bde4b0fe0944d24ee7  
[AB1: Biden Mentions Abortion Two Times](https://archive.ph/GDjKx)

[PE1]: https://www.nationalreview.com/news/pelosi-claims-defund-the-police-is-not-the-position-of-the-democratic-party/  
[PE1: Nancy Pelosi Denounces Defund The Police](https://archive.ph/K58Yy)

[BU1]: https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/u.s._immigration_and_customs_enforcement.pdf  
[BU1: ICE budget](https://archive.ph/bxbWJ)

[94]: https://www.aclu.org/blog/smart-justice/mass-incarceration/how-1994-crime-bill-fed-mass-incarceration-crisis  
[94: 1994 Crime Bill Mass Incarceration Analysis](https://archive.ph/yAusJ)

[ME1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=np37I1Clubw  
[ME1: Medicare Cut Ad (Bernie Sanders Ad / Video)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=np37I1Clubw)

[DC1]: https://www.healthlawdiagnosis.com/2019/04/cms-announces-new-direct-contracting-care-models/  
[DC1: CMS Launches DC Program](https://archive.ph/KrJwA)

[JA1]: https://jacobinmag.com/2022/03/joe-biden-administration-privatization-medicare-health-insurance-direct-contracting-entities
[JA1: Biden Expanding DC Program](https://archive.ph/0AMhn)

[DE1]: https://www.huffpost.com/entry/postmaster-dejoy-sorting-machines-stripped-for-parts_n_5f6d71d5c5b64deddeeb9107
[DE1: DeJoy Trashes Sorting Machines](https://archive.ph/ZDZ7r)

[DE2]: https://www.newsweek.com/can-congress-stop-louis-dejoy-buying-gas-post-office-delivery-fleet-1693909  
[DE2: DeJoy Rejects Electrification](https://archive.ph/Ja1YA)

[CAP1]: https://www.cnbc.com/2021/01/09/pro-trump-dark-money-groups-organized-the-rally-that-led-to-deadly-capitol-hill-riot.html
[CAP1: Dark Money Stop The Steal]()
