---
layout: post
section: wip
date: 2024-01-01
headline:
summary:
lindex:
---
ahoy hoy, I'm luna, the people's bayonet, that's people's bayo dot net comin' at you as-live from occupied georgia! My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners, subscribers big and small, it's PRIDE MONTH!

Whether you're queer or not, I'm here to tell you all about how working class queer liberation movements have been co-opted and recuperated by corporations and owning-class-aligned NGOs.

I'll try to keep things as simple as possible, but there's some new words in here that you might like to learn, might impress your friends.

But let's back up, actually, to talk about the principles of queer liberation in a working class movement.

1. The point is liberty, not rights within an oppressive society.

2. A liberty that does not include all is an incomplete liberty.

3. Being queer is perfectly normal.

1. if you look at the intersections between queerness and working class-ness, you notice that a lot of negative things that queer people deal with are driven not by hate, but by the economic system that oppresses us and keeps us in bondage for the purpose of profit. Any rights gained within a system that oppresses all are temporary privileges, and doing anything short of completely replacing the economic mode will do nothing to raise our material conditions in any sort of permanent way.

2. Excluding people from your movement because they do not fit some pre-set criteria is antithetical to the queer liberation movement, as the only way forward is through unity and revolution. If you don't have the numbers, you don't have the power, you can't get anything changed. This means all sorts of exclusionary ideology needs to be expunged with little sense of prejudice. We do not tolerate separatists, we do not tolerate exclusionaries, we will not tolerate exterminationism. These are all things that exist within bourgeois queer liberation movements

3. Most importantly, being different from the favored identity does not make your identity lesser, it does not make you a deviant, it does not make you suddenly bourgeois, no. the people out here trying to push "degeneracy" narratives are wreckers and should be ashamed.

With this in mind, why don't I focus on queer liberation as an advocate and propagandist? It seems most pertinent to my conditions, as a working class queer person, it isn't

Queer Liberation needs to be a PART of a socialist program, it cannot exist without abolishing capitalism.

Without destroying the mechanisms by which queer identities are marginalized and recuperated, there won't be liberty, it will simply be temporary rights within an oppressive system. That may be nice for a little while, but, they're tryinna outlaw transness in a lot of states right now, and meanwhile, H.R. 5, the Equality Act, which would make it illegal to fire someone for being queer, an actual material gain that can be used for further solidarity and unionizing efforts, is being held up in the senate because Democrats don't actually care about us, not at all.

the sooner we accept that the ruling class is either trying to destroy us or is unfazed by our destruction, the sooner we can stop relying on their charities and virtue signals, and the sooner we can do away with the oppressive system that uses our queerness as a weapon against us.

but that's not the fun part of this conversation, no no, that's too obvious. What we need to talk about is Recuperation.

Recuperation is the appropriation of a radical idea by a neutralizing and commodifying media and culture, which tends to supplant the genuine article with a version of that radical idea that has all the radical ripped out of it.

We used to throw BRICKS at COPS, dammit, and now we have cops marching alongside raytheon pride floats or whatever, like, it's a very clear case of recuperation imo.

The current name of the corruption of genuine identity, holistic solidarity, and even socialism, is Recuperation.

Holistic Solidarity has been recuperated as Atomized Solidarity, which exploits Alienated Identity, the recuperation of genuine identity, to suppress and disrupt the efforts of the working class to build power to bring about Socialism, which has been recuperated as Democratic Socialism (which asserts that Socialism itself is not democratic).

Ideology separates us from each-other in ways that I can hardly enumerate, but one of the biggest ideological divides is between Idealist Neo-Liberalism and Materialist Communism. This divide, between people, is not necessarily insurmountable, as Neo-Liberals are frequently members of the working class who have been lied to repeatedly about the nature of the world as it exists, and they have been saddled with a false consciousness that market forces themselves are not what's ripping us off, but older people, well-off workers, white people, straight people, cis people, whatever it is that is quote-unquote "revolutionary" to focus our ire upon this week, black people, hispanic people, trans people, gay people, disabled people, whatever it is that Tucker Carlson and his ilk are focusing on this week.

these are just the extremities of the issue, the most visible differences, but even down on an individual piece of content, like a game for instance, the in-group out-group dynamic persists. it's engendered by the spectacle, the representation of reality through mediated and cultivated images, the lie that resembles the truth, but not in whole.

if the only way we're conditioned to look at others is through essentialized images of people instead of engaging with others on an individual level, there's no other way to look at the world outside of the black and white perspective of a marketer. either you're a buyer, or you're irrelevant.

I will make a distinction between the celebrations that people have during the month of june about their queerness, and the exercise of soft power carried out yearly by hundreds of corporations, and thousands of businesses, for the purpose of profit and nothing more.

those people are being drowned out by corporations attempting to queer-wash their products for one month a year to attempt to capitalize on this recuperated identity.

that's the difference between a more genuine identity and an identity sold by capitalism.

Recently, Xbox brought out a pride-flag-inundated controller skin that screams "queer people, please buy me!" but Xbox has no intention on carrying out progress, because real progress means dismantling and nationalizing industries, and many, like Xbox, would not survive this process.

consumerism is the idea that consumption drives production, the focus is on the consumer, but under capitalism, consumerism is more of a smokescreen than a solid theory. with consumerism, marketing and commodification are the primary elements of secondary economic control, which means that they use ads to sell you things that you very well may not need, and, I would say, likely don't need. It's easy to see where this picks up steam, if not where it starts, when you look at how affluence is portrayed in media pointed at the working class. It's all about SPENDING money. it's not just a system by which people consume, it's a Consumer Culture, a "carefully curated set of social norms with an agenda: Profit." as Peter Coffin put in their doc "Consumer Identity = Cultivated Identity" and they continue that "It's easier to profit, either monetarily or socially, when people's culture and identity [do] not conflict with profit."

unquote

so how do you go about making sure that peoples cultures and identities don't conflict with profit? well, you just sell people a version of their culture and/or identity that doesn't conflict with profit, and make it as appealing as possible

If you've seen, in recent years, a blighted scourge of rainbow-colored corporate logos, you will likely know what I'm talking about already

The simple fact that Raytheon did it should tell you that Pride Month is officially a marketing exercise, but that's just one example of a trend, where's the malice? what's wrong with buying something with a pride flag on it? well, the malice can be found in the recruitment propaganda for the CIA.

CIA Stooge: "Growing up gay in a small southern town, I was lucky to have a wonderful and accepting family. I always struggled with the idea that I might not be able to discuss my personal life at work. Imagine my surprise when I was taking my oath at CIA and I noticed a rainbow on then director Brennan's lanyard. Inclusion is a core value here. Officers from the top down work hard to ensure that every single person, whatever their gender, gender identity, race, disability or sexual orientation can bring their entire self to work every day."

unquote

You can see how they're using the language and imagery of liberal progressives, the people trying to push bourgeois queer liberation movements, the ineffective twats who make actual liberation more difficult by their class collaborationist attitudes. They're using this language to push propaganda past the common distrust of state agencies like the CIA, and trying to recruit queer people into the state apparatus. If you can't see how that's malicious, just take a look at all of the socialist projects destroyed by the CIA and related agencies. Say hello to Ghana for me while you're at it.

consumerism means not just buying products, and services, but concepts as well, hence why fandom and capitalist politics look almost identical, because capitalist politics is essentially fandom

the democratic party, as I will keep bitching about, do not give a damn about queer people on a material level. there's nothing to suggest that they will do what needs to be done to keep us from harm when the chips are down, and the chips have been down on HR5 since march of 2021.

and it's not like all businesses are using pride month to visually uplift queer people, some are going in quite the other direction. Starbucks, during pride month, is threatening trans employees in response to a general union drive by all workers, trans and not. This is a function of institutional bigotry, which itself is a function of neoliberal capitalism, and it reinforces the hierarchy of owner over worker. Workers are always threatened for trying to unionize, hell Elon Musk threatened all Tesla employees' benefits if they unionized, so this is just how this process goes, but it's very interesting that, during pride month specifically, starbucks managers decided to go for the throat. if we are to liberate queer people, we must do it through collective action against the capital-state and the owning class. We cannot just ask for rights within an oppressive system, because we'll never be given the rights that keep us from being threatened with our own health. If not trans healthcare, then healthcare in general, if it's being provided, it's being provided as a way to keep you in line, not actually protect your health. Let's be honest, if you tried to unionize, they will likely try to fire you, which threatens your livelihood wholly.

That's really the crux of the issue, we're being used as pawns by the owning class, and we can only break free when we can see the ways in which they try to control us, in the ways they try to mold our behaviors to avoid ever giving up any control over our material conditions. We're being treated like pawns, because we can just be stripped of healthcare, income, banking, housing, everything that our jobs provide us the ability to do, and there's little we can do about it alone. but we're not pawns, we're people, and we can work together to cap the king. No more of this 4D chess shit, we can work this out with simple math. There are more of us than there are of them, and they are actually trying to control our lives, so maybe instead of conspiracy theories about marginalized groups, we can focus on the few and powerful owners.

quote article:
"Starbucks denied wrongdoing. “We are not threatening our partners with the loss of benefits if they join a union,” spokesperson Reggie Borges said Tuesday. “We take a great deal of pride in offering industry-leading benefits and have done so for more than 50 years”"

if we want a collective reality, we have to fight against the spectacular narrative everywhere it seeps in, and this is a very clear example of how the owning class frames its veiled threats at trans workers for taking advantage of the healthcare provided by their insurance. They've found a way to single out a specific section of people, threaten them in front of the group, and use that individual's identity to alienate them from their self-realized union solidarity.

this is the end result of individualism: atomization and alienation.

We know that Neo-Liberal capitalism is based on this individualism, this atomization of identity, this alienation from self and others, and the damage that it does to humanity on its own is enough to want to escape the dominant mode that tears us apart.

Alienated Identity supplants Holistic Solidarity by focusing our efforts on retaining not just individual identity, a genuine self-actualized identity, but an isolated identity. As Peter Coffin put in their documentary "Our Lady of Perpetual Correctness:"

"if we want to break out of these customized, individual realities, we have to opt in to a collective reality, and we have to work for it. we have to start having material goals, in other words, we need to set outcomes we're shooting for, specifically a collective reality in which some experiences and information are not relative, but universal, restoring the social contract known as 'facts,' and all of our actions need to contribute to those goals."

unquote

that is, we need to form community around our collective interests, not around what peter calls Custom Reality, a form of Cultivated Identity based around the individual, rather than the community.

so join me, my friends, my family, my fellow new southerners, join me in my perspective, in my view, in the way I perceive the connections between everything. Join me, and explore the world as it is, and not as it appears to be.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo dot net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation. to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:
