---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2022-05-02
headline: "Transgenderism" and the Myth of Progress
summary: "Poverty and Suicide" goes the song of my people
lindex: newsouth14
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, we’ll be talking about forced transition and suicide today, so if you think you can handle that, we shall proceed.

So, [Brian Kemp just signed a bill into law that bans trans kids from sports,][KEMP1] (KEMP1) and allows parents to pick and choose what gets taught in the classroom with legal consequences if they continue to try to teach reality.

"House Bill 1084, known as the Protect Students First Act, which prohibits the teaching of "divisive concepts" in the classroom as well as in professional training. Under the law, divisive concepts are defined as those that espouse, among others, that the United States in fundamentally racist; that a person, by virtue of their race, is inherently racist, bears responsibility for past actions of people of the same race, or should feel anguish or guilt; and that performance-based advancement or the appreciation of work ethic is racist.

Parents, legally emancipated students and school district employees can file complaints with the school district if they believe a violation of the law has occurred."

but, to quote Terrence Wilson from the IDRA:

"In truth, this effort is meant to give small but loud groups of parents the ability to censor what students can learn about the role of racism, bigotry, oppression and marginalization, not only as a part of the truthful history of this country, but also their current impact on students' experiences right now in Georgia," Wilson said.

so, I would like to break the law here, as a self-appointed educator, and talk to y'all about history and transgender stuff.

First off, let me get my principles on the table, so we know where I'm comin' from here.
One: If your real doctor recommends a treatment or procedure, and you believe it to be in your best interests to undergo it, the government should not get in the way of your personal decisions.
Two: If your child tells you who they are, believe them, even if they change, because they WILL change.
and Three: the US government, in all of its forms and leaderships over the decades, is responsible for the vast vast majority of violence within its borders, and atrocities outside.

there's this stupid thing about the arrow of history always pointing towards progress
and I absolutely hate it because it's ahistorical and gives people false hope
the arrow of history is chaotic and fought over by large groups of people, it's not something that points in any one direction for very long
the contradictions of capitalism are driving us towards a breaking point where we either have outright fascism or we will progress to socialism
that arrow doesn't exist yet, and pretending that it does is giving up on reality and diving into fantasy, the idealism that infects and poisons the minds of millions through capitalist propaganda. History is happening right now, the history books are being written as we speak, the theory read in 100 years has yet to be written! you're not gonna get queer liberation under capitalism, because ultimately, it doesn't matter what the fuck your identity is, it doesn't matter what the fuck you choose to do about your identity, what matters is that you are a worker, you are a wage slave, and you will be placated then put in your place by your so-called "betters" over and over and over again until we rise up and dethrone them
these anti-trans bills in the news are because of the "progress" that was given out to us in the first place by the ruling class, that is being taken by the ruling class once again, and the democrats continue to be friends with the republicans, they continue to work alongside republicans, they don’t call for the overthrow of the republican party, because excessive republican violence drives their campaign rhetoric and fills their coffers. Then they institute reforms that get massively cut back further than they started when the republicans use this "progress" as a funding point to massively cut back said "progress"

this is why I call it the myth of progress, right? it's hard to take progressives seriously when the reforms they're calling for are really fuckin' basic shit that wouldn't be a problem in a socialist society
there will be a need to rewrite the law books, don't get me wrong, but you don't get basic reforms by calling for basic reforms, you get basic reforms for threatening revolution, radical reformation, and you get radical reforms by following through

for the part of the Democrats, let's look back at [how many judges Trump's administration got to appoint][JUDGE1] (JUDGE1) because democrats are... kinda the reason a lot of bad shit happened in the Trump administration, to be honest. Obama's administration could've had the chance to replace Ruth Gator Binsburg, [but Ruth wanted a white woman to replace her because she was very very racist.][JUDGE2] (JUDGE2) Obama's administration had the chance to place judges every single place in the country, but, there were vacancies throughout america that the Trump admin capitalized on, there were 2 supreme court justices appointed by the Trump admin, and the Biden administration is currently eyeing down the barrel of some truly heinous legislation after repeatedly reaffirming that they would not be expanding the supreme court to combat said heinous legislation. We will see how well they fight a directive in texas to steal trans children from their families, but, I have a feeling it's not going to go well for us trans folks.
we can talk about the republican party, even fearmonger about them, all damn day. they're awful, they are reactionary, and frankly as openly fascistic as the nazis were, so, what is the point of criticizing the republican party? in my opinion, there is none. It suffices to say that republican politicians are never going to PRETEND to be on our side, because they don't need to.

the reason I talk about the Democrats more often is because they're supposedly allied with minorities and workers, but they really are about as fascistic as the republicans, just with a smile instead of a bluster.

this society plays off identity stuff, whether you're a real american or not, whether you're white or of color, cis or trans, man or woman or non-binary, whatever it is. Identity is the core of the Capitalist message, and identity is used as a method of control. I've talked about Class Reductionism and how it's a boggart fantasized by the deranged as a real concern, but what is a true, power-bearing concern is identity-reductionism. Both sides of the aisle do it, really, because the right, in particular, plays up american-ness to such a degree that being anti-american is the Maximum Progressive thing to be. We have seen an uptick in the calls to “Read Settlers” which I discussed briefly in my video on working class patriotism, which you can find in the references. There’s no analysis of class, no analysis of power, no analysis of material reality. We should be against the american state, and we should be against bigotry, but being anti-american is... baby shit, honestly, and progressives, especially, treat those lied to by bigotry as pariahs, “not really proletariat” or whatever crap is running around presenting itself as quote-unquote “progressive.”

I used to be a lot more bigoted than I am, and it would probably behoove people to recognize how much they've grown and, more importantly, where they grew FROM. we live in a bigoted society, it's okay to have been taught bigotry, so long as you're willing to work through that and grow out of bigotry. some look around at people who are less grown than themselves, they look upon these less-grown people with distress and disdain, but they were also more bigoted, when they were less grown, so one should aim to be a guiding hand, not a thundering fist.

The forces of reaction aren’t just individuals with a lot of free time on their hands to hate or something, they’re people being manipulated by the ruling classes to react to progress and reject revolution. In the battle against the forces of reaction, we are armed with sticks and stones, and they have been fitted with the finest armor money can buy. We can defeat the forces of reaction by disarming and educating them, but we’re fighting a battle we cannot win under the current conditions.

Is there a way to completely avoid or expel reactionary tendencies under the current system? The more I think about it, the more I realize it's a rather utopian idea that we can just wipe out the forces of reaction before we've even made a dent in the armor of the armorer. How do we propose to eliminate reaction?
Many pose the question as a moral one. "can you be a good person and also give in to reaction? how do we defeat those people?" Others pose it as it materially exists. "what causes reaction? how do we prepare for and weather it?" I pose it as a practical one.

To propose a current solution to reaction would be to say much without doing a damn thing, but we need a current work-through for understanding, combating, and ultimately bringing an end to bigotry, exploitation, and violence after the armorer is in the dustbin of history.

I've been talking about this a while now, and I've tried to quantify "class reductionism" but like... hon. that's like saying one is reducing a murder to the weapon. Looking at the reasons around a murder will tell you clues for why a murder happened, you can understand the psychology of a murderer, you can figure out the exact series of events, but you will still not be addressing the knife sticking out of the victim's back.
some will look at the knife and go "that's just another factor!", I point at the knife and go "that's why the victim is dead."

At the end of the day, it's not "reduction to class" when I talk about reaching out to, connecting with, and educating the broader working class. Regardless of whatever caricature you imagine when I say the words "broader working class," it's called "compassion."

now, what do we do with actual legit conspiracy-theory poisoned reaction? fuck if I know. I'm not here to Deprogram Q-Cumbers, I'm here to get you to talk to your neighbors, y'hear? Read guerrilla warfare by Che Guevara, and understand how community is necessary to revolution.

what currently is beset upon us is an epidemic of reaction amidst an airborne pandemic, and I really get the impulse to shut down. I shut down. It's hard to watch reaction grip the populus and not feel that disdain, and not just crumple into a heap and cry for humanity. It's not the fault of the propagandized that they are propagandized, it's the fault of the ruling class, it's the fault of those in power. We can continue to blame the individuals for their identity misgivings, but they will continue to blame you for yours in turn, and there's no end to that. all I must say is that the ruling classes are enemies to the American and International working class and everyone will know everything.

The ruling class right now is telling us they want to help us, as reaction bears down upon the female, intersex, and transgender population:

[In Texas, Greg Abbott and the head of Texas’ department of family services released a directive to investigate the families of transgender children for receiving gender-affirming care][TRANS1] (TRANS1) such as calling them by their preferred names and usually just puberty blockers [until they’re 16 when they can actually start hormones.][TRANS2] (TRANS2) At least to my understanding of WPATH standards.

[One of the first to be investigated was an employee of the Department of Family Services,][TRANS4] (TRANS4) whose trans kid has received care and hopefully continues to receive care in one way or another.

[The Federal Government is going to be fighting against this directive, supposedly.][TRANS3] (TRANS3)

[quote Boston University:][TRANS5] (TRANS5)
Biden mentioned the Texas effort in his State of the Union speech Tuesday, and in a statement Wednesday, said: “Transgender children bring fulfillment to their parents, joy to their friends, and are made in the image of God. Affirming a transgender child’s identity is one of the best things a parent, teacher, or doctor can do to help keep children from harm, and parents who love and affirm their children should be applauded and supported, not threatened, investigated, or stigmatized.”

hey look, biden said a thing that doesn't suck, but, guess who isn't getting any praise in this video from someone in a relationship with someone who takes a [controlled substance that is only a controlled substance because of *checks notes* joe biden.][TRANS6] (TRANS6)
supposedly they are taking action here, but I want to see results to be honest. until I see material results, I will not be giving joe biden more than a mention and a bit of scorn.

so, said person brought up something interesting. [an actual case of attempted force-transition of a child.][TRANS7] (TRANS7)

at 7 months old, they fucked up this kid's dick with a botched circumcision (something that shouldn't be done to BABIES) and they put him on hormones and castrated him

it was lauded as a success by the doctor who performed it, but it wasn't a success, it was child abuse

doctor Money, as is his christian god given baby name, went on a talk show talking about coercive sex assignment as a POSITIVE THING

and the child who got maimed was chosen to be an experiment. he was then given EVEN MORE surgery and his family was told to basically gaslight him into thinking he was never a boy to begin with
he, obviously, rebelled at this every chance he got, preferring masculine things and doing masculine things and being masculine because he was a masculine boy, but he was coercively assigned female, and it wasn't working. This is exactly what happens when you try to force a trans child to pretend to be cis.

tell that to Doctor "yes it's my real name" Money tho because he thought things were going GREAT and that they should continue forcing this child to transition against his will.

Money already was the darling of radical feminists such as Kate Millett, who in her bestselling “Sexual Politics” two years earlier had cited Money’s writings from the 1950s as proof that “psychosexual personality is therefore postnatal and learned.”

in his teens, the child refused to continue taking estrogen, and at 14 refused to continue living as a girl, took on the name David, eventually adopted 3 children and married their mother, but was tormented by his past, the medical abuse he went through, it's legendary, honestly, and it drove him to suicide. it's the perfect example for not forcing children to transition when they don't wanna, and for helping the youths transition when they really seriously do. this is also reminiscent of the medical abuse performed on intersex children who don't have conforming genitalia, with similarly life-altering consequences.

I would support a directive to stop that medical child abuse, but unfortunately that’s not what this directive does.
it's about parents who have transgender children who want to follow the accepted care guidelines for children who wish to transition

I say "children" here, but we're generally talking about teens
the right fearmongers by talking about children as if we're talking about droves and droves of tots being processed through factory doctor offices to get them transed up and addicted to hormones
when again, it's mostly people who are going through a puberty that they do not want, like David was forced to do.
like I was forced to do...  
there's a lot of fearmongering about permanent damage, but puberty itself is permanent damage. I was 12 when I realized I wasn't a boy, but I had to live through an entire puberty I didn't want at the time or since.
you must understand that. before hormones are administered, puberty blockers and therapy are administered, because puberty scars your body. I have scars all over the place that show I'm something different
I'm intersex... and trans, it's complicated
looking at these scars brings me annoyance these days, but staring at the scars while I was stuck in the closet, unable to be myself, it drove me to drink, heavily, to numb the pain of looking in the mirror and seeing someone who doesn't want to exist
I tried to drink myself to death rather than come out as trans and risk rejection, but it failed, I woke up, I called my mother, and I came out to her. then I started therapy, then I started blockers and estrogen, and do you know the 3 most common words are that I heard over and over? "Are you sure?"
I had to affirm and reaffirm that I was not making a mistake because they really don't want you to make a mistake
that's how all transgender care is, at least here in america
risk avoidance, affirmation, and regular blood testing
and I'm okay, I'll be okay, but many people aren't okay or weren't okay,
And this isn’t the first-crush heartbreak, you’ll get over it kind of not okay,
This kind of not okay is a fast track to suicide.
that's what doctors are trying to prevent in trans teens in texas and elsewhere
they're trying to prevent trauma and they're trying to prevent death
teens should be allowed to transition. not just blockers and therapy, but full hormonal transition. If you're old enough for permanent damage to be done to your body by a puberty you don't want, you're old enough to accept permanent changes to your body you DO want. I will absolutely not compromise on this, I knew I was a girl at age 12 and had to live through 12 more years of chemicals I don't want doing damage to my body.
there is no epidemic of doctors transing kids who aren't really trans
there is an epidemic of suicide among trans people
[in Argentina, they passed law covering transgender care and requiring the update of documents to reflect how someone prefers to be seen in an effort to reduce suicide among trans folks.][TRANS8]
Psychologist Graciela Balestra, who works closely with the transgender community, says it's an especially vulnerable population.

"Transgender people have an average life expectancy of about 30 to 32 years," Balestra says. "...I think that statistic alone says so much."
in Argentina, at least 95 percent of trans people had to turn to prostitution because of the barriers in place to legal work
now, that number is significantly lower due to the new ID laws
"poverty and suicide" is the chorus to the song of my people, unfortunately

intersex people are also being attacked in the state of alabama as a result of these anti-trans policies, [as nobody under the age of 19 (not 18? that's odd innit?) will be allowed to take puberty blockers, hormone therapy, or get surgery that alters their physiology in any transitional way.][TRANS9] (TRANS9) This is an issue for intersex people, because frequently we have to take hormone replacement therapy just to have healthy levels of testosterone or estrogen or whatever just to get through primary puberty, and some lucky folks got to choose which hormones they took. This is not some transing-the-children thing, it's a legitimate health concern for thousands of intersex folks as WELL as the trans folks.

now to the other part of my general identity: female. Ectopic Pregnancies (when a fetus develops outside the womb, which can lead to sepsis and kill the bearer, once a death sentence, now a minor surgery) [are now going to be banned in Missouri,][ECTOPIC1] (ECTOPIC1) because there's either a lack of understanding of what an Ectopic Pregnancy is, or there's a seriously sadistic streak here that I literally cannot ignore. This also affects trans people, as traditionally-female reproductive care can be difficult to access for trans men and non-binary people, as they are not women, and are frequently rejected for things like abortions of ectopic pregnancies, for instance.

suicide, poverty, death sentences, abuse, and forced pregnancy.

the cruelty is the point. I have no words of comfort. reaction is terrible, reaction can tear apart families, friends, societies, and the ruling class can say whatever it wants to about whether or not we deserve it, the cruelty is the point of the system in which we live, under which we serve as the bootlicks sing their praises on TV. Democrat, Republican, this is a meaningless distinction. what matters is power, and the ruling class works more within itself than it will ever work with us, unless it deems fit to fleece us, that is.

"the arrow of history always points towards progress." no it doesn't. progressive and conservative are parts of the capitalist order, and they aren't going to lead to socialism. to quote uncle Joe, "in order not to err in policy, one must pursue an uncompromising proletarian class policy, not a reformist policy of harmony of the interests of the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, not a compromisers' policy of the "growing" of capitalism into socialism."

one does not grow into the other, the new ablates and replaces the old. The only progress we will gain is through revolution, radical reformation of the economic and social order by an educated and dedicated subset of the working class with their allies within the proletarianized peasantry.

Or, in simple engilsh: city folk and country folk gotta work together to get rid of the current ruling order. That's the long and short of it. We will not defeat reaction by destroying individual conscripts, we will gain victory with as few losses as possible on both sides if we fight side by side instead of playing into reaction and prolonging the process for another group of people.

[to quote Les Feinberg from their book Transgender Liberation][FEINBERG1] (FEINBERG1)
"
yes, trans liberation is shaking up old patterns of thoughts or beliefs. good! because most of these thoughts and beliefs we are challenging we're imposed on us from above, or rotten to the core and we're backed up by bigoted laws. but we're not taking away your identity. no one's sex reassignment or fluidity of gender threatens your right to self identify and self-express. on the contrary, our struggle bolsters your right to your identity. my right to be me is tied with a thousand threads to your right to be you.
...
like racism and all forms of prejudice, bigotry against transgendered people is a deadly carcinogen. we are pitted against each other in order to keep us from seeing each other as allies. genuine bonds of solidarity can be forged between people who respect each other's differences and are willing to fight their enemy together. we are the class that does the work of the world, and can revolutionize it. we can win true liberation.
"

Liberation for the oppressed, the workers, will come not from itemized freedoms and atomized liberation movements, but from a real, serious, inclusive solidarity in the working class movement, and a solidarity that goes beyond traditional progressive narratives. We need solidarity in our struggle from those who disagree with us on values, and we need to show solidarity to them in turn, which I would say, starts with not being a dick about your values in public. Note how infrequently I shame workers for being wrong, take it as an example. Freedom for queer folk, women folk, men folk, non-queer folk, unaffiliated folk, Red Voters, Blue Voters, the disaffected masses who play along with the status quo, only because it's all they know how to do.

Show solidarity, and be amazed with the bonds you create.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[KEMP1]: https://patch.com/georgia/decatur/s/i8bpr/bills-on-banning-books-transgender-sports-race-signed-by-kemp?utm_source=alert-breakingnews&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=alert  
[KEMP1: Bills Banning Trans Sports and Basic History Itself](https://archive.ph/ewhpU)

[JUDGE1]: https://www.axios.com/trump-has-now-appointed-most-ever-federal-appeals-judges-in-1st-year-1513388665-b0f7cc3c-1b90-4a34-b63f-427a4ee9fe84.html  
[JUDGE1: Trump Appoints Most Federal Appeals Judges](https://archive.ph/pRSMU)

[JUDGE2]: https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/21/magazine/ginsburg-successor-obama.html  
[JUDGE2: Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Refusal to Step Down, Bet on Clinton Win](https://archive.ph/4JcjZ)

[TRANS1]: https://gov.texas.gov/news/post/governor-abbott-directs-dfps-to-investigate-gender-transitioning-procedures-as-child-abuse  
[TRANS1: Texas Anti-Trans Directive](https://archive.ph/NGFoZ)

[TRANS2]: https://www.wpath.org/media/cms/Documents/SOC%20v7/SOC%20V7_English2012.pdf?_t=1613669341
[TRANS2: WPATH Guidelines for Transgender Care](https://archive.ph/kyeGA)

[TRANS3]: https://news.yahoo.com/biden-puts-texas-notice-over-053302443.html  
[TRANS3: Biden Notice on Texas Anti-Trans Directive](https://archive.ph/0L0du)

[TRANS4]: https://www.insideedition.com/texas-family-services-employee-placed-on-leave-investigated-over-her-trans-daughters-medical-care  
[TRANS4: Texas DFS Employee Investigated for Trans Daughter](https://archive.ph/BjLI7)

[TRANS5]: https://www.bu.edu/articles/2022/latest-texas-anti-transgender-directive-explained/  
[TRANS5: Biden SoTU Quote about Trans Folks](https://archive.ph/HzJNh)

[TRANS6]: https://web.archive.org/web/20220207232735/https://sportsanddrugs.procon.org/source-biographies/joe-biden/  
[TRANS6: Joe Biden Attacks Testosterone](https://web.archive.org/web/20220207232735/https://sportsanddrugs.procon.org/source-biographies/joe-biden/)

[TRANS7]: https://www.latimes.com/archives/la-xpm-2004-may-13-me-reimer13-story.html  
[TRANS7: Forced Transition Gone Terribly Wrong](https://archive.ph/NZbFs)

[TRANS8]: https://www.npr.org/2012/10/01/162100680/no-more-lying-law-bolsters-transgender-argentines#:~:text=%22Transgender%20people%20have%20an%20average,32%20years%2C%22%20Balestra%20says  
[TRANS8: Suicide Rate in Argentina Plummets Amidst Transgender Reforms](https://archive.ph/5WNfi)


[TRANS9]: https://www.foxnews.com/us/alabama-governor-signs-law-banning-trans-youth-medication  
[TRANS9: Alabama Bans Trans and Intersex Care](https://archive.ph/dwdE8)

[ECTOPIC1]: https://i.redd.it/cpd03nfs8fm81.jpg  
[ECTOPIC1: Life-Saving Ectopic Pregnancy Abortion Banned](https://archive.ph/wip/VCJcC)

[FEINBERG1]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217305.Trans_Liberation   
[FEINBERG1: Trans Liberation by Les Feinberg](https://archive.ph/wip/CGzJp)
