---
layout: post
section: wip
date: 2024-01-01
headline: How Does Antitrust Affect Unions?
summary: Antitrust and Legal-Unionism
lindex: newsouth19
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo dot net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, we have to talk about Legal-Unionism and continue our discussion from the previous in this short series on Antitrust. To begin with, we're gonna look at a few more court cases that helped define labor law in the United States.

In 1890, the [Sherman Antitrust Act][SHERMAN1] (SHERMAN1) was passed, making illegal "Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations." As I said last episode, this does, in fact, include unions.



Just a couple years after the Sherman Act was passed, the first anti-labor antitrust case on my roster was brought forward against a group of striking sailors. the Steam Ship Violante ferried goods between New Orleans and Liverpool, and the crew became unhappy with being unpaid for docked days, going on strike the morning they were to leave port. The Violante's Captain tried to get another crew, but the striking crew intimidated away any potential replacements. This kept up until the court issued an injunction against them for violating the Sherman Antitrust Act in [Blindell v Hagan 1893.][HAGAN1] (HAGAN1) This ruling is because goods from New Orleans could not make it back to Liverpool, therefore international trade is being restricted by, essentially, an agreement between members of a crew demanding to be paid for their time.



In the same court, one month later, [a case was brought forward against the Workingmen's Amalgamated Council of New Orleans][COUNCIL1] (COUNCIL1) in response to the [1892 New Orleans General Strike,][COUNCIL2] (COUNCIL2) which is a video on its own, alleging that their combination of unions was such that, given the port status of New Orleans, interstate and international trade were being restricted in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. This set precedence for cases involving port unions for about 20 years until the passing of the Clayton Act, which enshrined Unions as Legal and giving forward momentum to the Legal-Unionist movement.



[The Clayton act was passed in 1914 and clarified what is and is not allowed under antitrust law.][CLAYTON1] (CLAYTON1) It begins with the fantastic sentiment “The labor of a human being is not a commodity or article of commerce,” which implies that labor should not be held to the same regulations as commodities and articles of commerce. Regardless of the fantastic sentiment, antitrust still applies to unions, but, the Clayton Act made some key exceptions that essentially protected unions' right to bargain for pay and conditions with their workplace without being in violation of antitrust.

In 1921, however, the court case of [Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering][DEER1] (DEER1) set the precedent that "secondary" or "solidarity" or "sympathy" strikes, in which unions in other businesses or industries go on strike in support of a striking union, were not exempt from antitrust law. The ruling also allowed the court to once again issue injunctions to halt union activity that got out of line.

In 1941, the court case of [US v Hutcheson][HUTCH1] (HUTCH1) further restricted union activity, defining that Union Activity must consist of actions in the quote "union's self-interest." This means no secondary strikes, no protesting to force un-unionized workplaces to hire union or go out of business, and no joining, in any way, with non-union organizations. Unions must fight for themselves, themselves only, and they can't do anything too scary.

Those two rulings restricted application of the protections in the Clayton act, rendering it no more than a fantastic sentiment that is technically in the law books. The Clayton Act was called by AFL's Samuel Gompers "Labor's Magna Carta" because it enshrined the bargaining process into law, but to talk about why this compliment means very little in the modern era, I have to talk about the AFL and the CIO.



[the AFL, or the American Federation of Labor, was founded in 1886,][AFL1] (AFL1) inaugurating AFL President Samuel Gompers leadership with the [may day general strike on May 1st, 1886.][AFL2] (AFL2) That. Is a video on its own. But Labor Day was passed with pressure from the may day strike, maybe? so let's just count that as a win for Legal-Unionism. The AFL originally organized as the Federation of Organized Trades and Labor Unions of the United States of America and Canada or FOTLUUSAC from 1881-1886. No wonder they went with AFL. They were formed as a combination of craft unions, who sought mutual support following the collapse of the Knights of Labor, under the guidance of Samuel Gompers. Gompers was THE union man, basically the face of Legal-Unionism, and he was elected president of the AFL at its founding and every election since then, barring one, before his death in 1924. The man who replaced him, William Green, was also a president-for-life, which is an interesting pattern to maintain.

Originally, the AFL did not admit women or people of color, and strictly stayed out of politics, as Gompers thought it would offend business owners and make the bargaining process more difficult. So, the AFL had some pervasive foundational issues. The biggest ideological issue that the AFL had though, is that they only admitted quote-unquote "skilled workers" and would not represent a union of "unskilled workers." This means that AFL was slash is promoting craft unionism, and refusing the call of industrial unionism, which I believe was a major misstep.

Despite their restrictive policies, the AFL unionized many workplaces, and were lauded as a success by the american labor movement by obtaining fairer conditions and pay. Gompers' refusal to interfere in politics until later in his life is, I think, his biggest mistake in this, maybe admittedly, because on top of fairer conditions and fairer pay, we could be demanding fairer laws, we could be demanding enforcement of laws on huge employers, we could be joining with non-union organizations to build power for systemic change.

[Gompers and the AFL fought to end Yellow Dog contracts, with Green transitioning the AFL to its more political Social Reform era.][AFL3] (AFL3) Yellow Dog Contracts forbid an employee from seeking union membership under threat of termination. These contracts were very commonplace in response to the rise in legal-unionism, but, in 1932, the Norris-Laguardia act was passed, outlawing Yellow Dog contracts. This was absolutely a win in the legal-unionist fight, and gave representation to many workers who would otherwise be on their own.

[The National Labor Relations Act, otherwise known as the Wagner Act,][WAGNER1] (WAGNER1) was signed into law in 1935. The National Labor Relations Board, NLRB, was thus established to oversee elections for union representation and to investigate unfair labor practices. The Wagner Act forbids discrimination against union-members and plaintiffs alike, and guarantees the right to organize and act as a union in the private sector. The NLRB has a bit of a track record of ruling against unions when they step even slightly out of line, tho, and [recently they ruled against mineworkers in the southeast][NLRB1] (NLRB1) who went on strike for 16 months, and who were met with violence from the police and private contractors, to the tune of 13.3 Million Dollars in damages as a result of work stoppage.

the period following the Wagner act saw a lot of wins for labor, Starting with the formation of the CIO. Following the death of Gompers, many members were advocating for the AFL to open up their ranks to the "unskilled laborers" and unionize workplaces that provide some of the biggest profits to the owning class. This group of people was the Committee for Industrial Organization.


[The Committee for Industrial Organization,][CIO1] (CIO1) founded in 1935, was an organization of, to begin with, 10 AFL-Member unions. In 1937 after trying to influence policy to allow unskilled laborers and black or integrated workplaces, all 10 unions were expelled from the AFL to form the Congress of Industrial Organizations, the CIO.

The CIO increased the ranks of "unskilled" unions across the nation, including many integrated workplaces, and gave a voice to the voiceless masses, advocating for unions that cover entire industries and not just specific crafts. This is Industrial-Unionism's time to shine! One of the biggest successes was actually prior to their split with the AFL. In 1936, workers at the [Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio][CIO2] (CIO2) went on strike to protest the conditions and pay at the factory. They staged a sit-in to prevent scabs from taking their jobs while they strike, while forming impressive picket lines outside the factory to generate publicity and further hold off scabs, until the police were called in. Upon arriving, the police refused to cross the picket line due to the sheer number of angry workers they were faced with, and Goodyear eventually gave in, allowing the formation of United Rubber Workers, a labor union of "unskilled" workers, something Gompers would've hated to see.

The CIO supported New Deal programs by then-president Roosevelt, as they helped to empower unions in the south. This means that a lot of "unskilled," black, and integrated workplaces were unionizing, especially after the outbreak of World War 2. Some New Deal programs still exist today, but many were dismantled by reaction soon afterwards, and Union Power took one of the biggest hits it's ever taken thanks to the Taft-Hartley Act.



[The Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, better known as the Taft-Hartley Act,][TAFT1] (TAFT1) was passed in reaction to an economic downturn during the war, which conservatives blamed on the power of unions. The Act sought to limit the power of unions by enabling the creation of "right to work" laws, which, if you've heard about before, you know they're bad news for unions. Essentially, right-to-work laws enable employers to circumvent unions to hire non-union employees in unionized workplaces, causing union membership to plummet, and union power to go down with it.

The CIO continued their hard work until 1955, when they were reabsorbed by the AFL to become the AFL-CIO. The main problem with the AFL-CIO is that they're the AFL in spirit and the CIO in membership, which leads to political interference (mostly in favor of Democrats), and a complete disconnect with the average American worker. I'm, clearly, not a fan of the AFL-CIO, so let's move on before I get to slander.


Right now, the only real protections that Labor has in its fight against Capital are designed to enable craft-unionism and discourage industrial-unionism, and those protections are cut to the stencil set by antitrust, so, we have to ask the question, I think: "does antitrust spark joy?" that is, is it doing what it says it's doing? is it doing more good than harm? Or, maybe, more importantly, is the Era of Legal-Unionism Over?

As I'll define it, the era of Legal-Unionism started with the formation of the AFL under the leadership of Samuel Gompers, and became mainstreamed in large part in 1914 with the passage of the Clayton Act. The era ended in 1955 when the CIO ceded the ground it had fought to maintain since the passage of the Taft-Hartley act in 1947, and rejoined the AFL.

The problem with my definition is that the era of Legal-Unionism is not so much over, as it's the only thing allowed to exist under the capital-state, in its permanently hobbled form, gaining minor victories here and there, but never again shifting the landscape as they were once able to do.



I think the only remaining solution for union advocates is to advocate for Illegal-Unionism, where we refuse to pay fines to the NLRB, and we take up the mantle of absolute legends like Eugene Debs and flaunt injunctions filed against strike action.

To wit, my favorite Antitrust vs Labor lawsuit: [US v. Debs.][DEBS1] (DEBS1)

In 1894, Rail workers, union and not, were compelled to refuse to carry Pullman cars. These were known as the Pullman Strikes, and as in the case of US v. Workingmen's Amalgamated Council of New Orleans et al and Blindell v. Hagan, interstate and international trade were being interrupted by the strike. As a result, the court issued an injunction against the strikers to force them to work.

Sidebar, isn't that slavery? Just sayin.

Well, Eugene Debs and the Strikers just kinda gave the middle finger to the courts and kept striking, which lead to US v Debs soon after, where the strike leaders and debs were indicted on contempt of court and sent to jail.

I mean it IS a pretty awesome reason to be held in contempt of court, not gonna lie, but... that's kinda the end-game for unionism in the United States, isn't it? Flaunting the rules and going to jail? We can battle it out in the courts, but they've proven to be hostile to unions. We can seek higher representation with the biggest union in the land, the AFL-CIO, but then we have to acquiesce to their agenda, and limit strike action.

I think what's over is the hayday of industrial-unionism, legal or illegal, either the CIO variety or the IWW variety. There will be no one-big-union without it being strictly against the law, which, godspeed soldier, but I don't think that's a particularly realistic goal when the state of the labor movement in these United States is as recuperated and destroyed as it is.

We will still need to do work, legal and illegal, if we want a worker's movement to build here. That much is beyond question. The question at hand is the methods of attaining our goal. I'm in favor of non-union organizations being incorporated with unions, which would allow the growth of a revolutionary democratic-centralist organization of workers pulled from the masses organized in unions and disorganized by Right To Work and other such legal hullabaloo.

If you want to see how Legal-Unionism exists today, I would suggest reading [No Shortcuts by Jane McAlevey,][JANE1] (JANE1) as she goes over how the organizing process works for legal unions in the US. The red tape you have to cut through, for example, if you're a union organizer, in many states, you cannot under any circumstances enter the business you're trying to organize.

that's bonkers, straight up nonsense, and if the era of Industrial-Unionism is over, then, what's left but revolution?



In part 3 of, hopefully, 3, I will be talking about solutions to antitrust, monopolies, and unions, by talking about a specific case in which we almost had nationalized telephones, 2 specific cases in which we almost had nationalized rail, and how nationalization might work under a worker-state as one prong of the solution to The Accumulation of Capital.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:



[SHERMAN1]: https://www.archives.gov/milestone-documents/sherman-anti-trust-act
[SHERMAN1: Sherman Antitrust Act]()

[HAGAN1]: https://case-law.vlex.com/vid/blindell-v-hagan-887576750
[HAGAN1: Blindell v Hagan]()

[COUNCIL1]: https://www.justice.gov/atr/legacy-antitrust-judgment-workingmens-amalgamated-council-of-new-orleans-et-al
[COUNCIL1: US v Workingmen's Amalgamated Council of New Orleans et al]()

[COUNCIL2]: https://neworleanshistorical.org/items/show/1406
[COUNCIL2: 1892 New Orleans General Strike]()

[CLAYTON1]: https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/15/17
[CLAYTON1: Clayton Antitrust Act]()

[DEER1]: https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/254/443/
[DEER1: Duplex Printing Press Co. v. Deering]()

[HUTCH1]: https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/312/219/
[HUTCH1: US v Hutcheson]()

[AFL1]: https://ohiohistorycentral.org/w/American_Federation_of_Labor  
[AFL1: History of the AFL]()

[AFL2]: https://ohiohistorycentral.org/w/May_Day_Strike_of_1886  
[AFL2: May Day Strike 1886]()

[AFL3]: https://aflcio.org/about/history/labor-history-people/william-green
[AFL3: AFL's William Green]()

[WAGNER1]: https://www.nlrb.gov/about-nlrb/who-we-are/our-history/1935-passage-of-the-wagner-act
[WAGNER1: Wagner Act]()

[NLRB1]: https://umwa.org/news-media/press/open-season-on-strikers-in-nlrb-region-10/
[NLRB1: NLRB Fines Union Workers for Striking]()

[CIO1]: https://ohiohistorycentral.org/w/Committee_for_Industrial_Organization
[CIO1: CIO History]()

[CIO2]: https://ohiohistorycentral.org/w/Akron_Rubber_Strike_of_1936
[CIO2: United Rubber Workers strike at Goodyear]()

[TAFT1]: https://mtsu.edu/first-amendment/article/1050/taft-hartley-act-of-1947
[TAFT1: Taft-Hartley Act]()

[DEBS1]: https://openjurist.org/64/f1d/724
[DEBS1: US v Debs]()

[JANE1]: https://janemcalevey.com/book/no-shortcuts-organizing-for-power-in-the-new-gilded-age/
[JANE1: Jane McAlevey: No Shortcuts]()
