---
layout: post
section: wip
date: 2024-01-01
headline: Holism and the Dialectical Method
summary: If Jan had met Joe, I'm sure they'd be friends
lindex:
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, What is Holism?

Holism is the idea that everything is connected, or that all aspects of a system are interrelated. This means that we cannot separate one part of reality from the rest. The whole universe is interconnected, and we can't understand it by studying only one part of it. We need to study the whole thing as a unified entity in order to fully understand it. The Gestalt, the emergent patterns inherent to the interplay of opposing forces in a system, must be understood as the effect of the interconnected and interrelated whole, and must NOT be understood as something that can stand on its own, or as the guiding force of a system. This is the meaning of "The Whole is More than the Sum of its Parts," to boil a complex theory into a slogan. The Gestalt is an emergent property, a property that does not exist within an interconnected system, but exists as a result of its working. This puts The Gestalt above The Real insofar as the Real is how we describe the functions of the parts, and The Gestalt is how we describe the behavior of the whole.

The word 'holism' was coined by Jan Smuts in 1926 as an opposite term for 'reductionism'. Reductionism is the idea that complex things can be understood by reducing them to their individual parts. For example, if you want to understand what makes up a car, you would break it down into its individual components and study each one separately. Holism rejects this notion and says that complex things can only be analyzed as an intrinsic part of a system. For example, a piston itself is not a machine, and cannot do meaningful work on its own, but as a part of a car engine, it can transfer the energy of combustion into reciprocating motion, which can become rotational motion through the use of cams and linkages to a drive shaft. it requires a chassis and wheels and seats and a driver and because it literally cannot operate in a vacuum, it requires an oxygen-filled atmosphere in a certain pressure range, and you can't drive most cars without a road built by other people. Everything is connected to everything, and separating the parts from the whole will bring you nothing but a non-functioning car. Without the parts, the car will not work, and without the car, the parts will not work. they must be analyzed as a whole to understand the function of each of the parts. The interconnectedness of all things becomes evident when you start looking for the connections between seemingly disparate topics such as Superfoods and Imperialist Capitalism, which I will be covering in another video at some point.

Jan Smuts' version of Holism has some... holes in it, let's say, which is to say that it is an incomplete theory, and he admits this himself. In his book "Holism and Evolution" he argues against the metaphysical interpretations of Evolution as having a guiding force or some other deterministic mode, by saying that, instead, evolution is an emergent property of deeply interconnected and conflicting systems. Evolution itself is not a straight line forward, it's more of a fractal, an infinitely branching tree, going in billions of directions, because the same forces that lead to the betterment of a species in adaptation to its environment can lead to over-adaptation and extinction.

The holes show up all over the place, but are mostly relegated to his omission of important social sciences like those developed by Karl and Engels. He makes no reference to Dialectical Materialism, and in fact, only references mechanical materialism and Mechanical Biology when referring to Materialism. He references Hegel without referencing Dialectics, which is a grave error, as much of Classical Holism would be less holey if one includes the Dialectics of Marx and Engels.

To cover for these holes, I turned my attention to Dialectical Materialism, which lead me to Communism as the end goal, and which strengthened the analysis I had done in my previous series: The Problem. Dialectical Materialism, as a guide, can lead to very profound results, so we should go over what it is and why it's important.



Dialectical materialism is a theory of everything. It is the synthesis of all that has been achieved in the history of human knowledge. It is not merely a philosophy, but an objective science and a method of cognition that can be verified in practice and constantly developed further. Dialectical materialism has been the guiding principle for all work in natural sciences, social sciences and most of philosophy for more than 100 years.

Dialectical Materialism, as a system, was developed by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels. This system of scientific inquiry is based on the idea that knowledge can be discovered through the dialectics of opposing forces. The dialectical materialist outlook affirms the idea that reality exists independently to the presence of humans. This theory is based on the idea that all natural phenomena are subject to the law of dialectics and materialism. In other words, everything in nature has a positive and negative side, which are in constant conflict.

the new does not simply replace the old, but ablates or erodes the old as it grows, if my Stalin is on-point, which is to say that what grows, what is eternal, is only the emerging, and that which is extant and triumphant is already dying away. To understand the interplay between something like Capitalism and Socialism, one must understand the theory upholding both, the contradictions that make them incompatible, and the interconnected ideas and structures that exist within both systems. We have to understand these things as the many parts of interconnected wholes, and the interrelations of the parts to each-other in the functioning of the whole. The tendency of Capitalism towards Crisis and Decay is an internal contradiction, as the goal of modern, imperial capitalism is infinite growth. If the system cannot provide infinite growth, then it is a failed system, yet it still stands today as a result of the power of the capital-state, resolving Crises by moving them around and distracting the populous from understanding the connections between the mode of production and the rhythm, depth, and severity of crises.

In "Dialectical and Historical Materialism," Uncle Joe lays it out like this:

"Contrary to metaphysics, dialectics does not regard nature as an accidental agglomeration of things, of phenomena, unconnected with, isolated from, and independent of, each other, but as a connected and integral whole, in which things, phenomena are organically connected with, dependent on, and determined by, each other.

The dialectical method therefore holds that no phenomenon in nature can be understood if taken by itself, isolated from surrounding phenomena, inasmuch as any phenomenon in any realm of nature may become meaningless to us if it is not considered in connection with the surrounding conditions, but divorced from them; and that, vice versa, any phenomenon can be understood and explained if considered in its inseparable connection with surrounding phenomena, as one conditioned by surrounding phenomena."

unquote

As you can see, his explanation of Dialectics describes much of the same philosophy as Holism. This does not make Holism a scientific study, by any stretch, but it does place the ideas of Holism in stark contrast with Reductionism, and the contradiction between the two is resolved by looking at natural phenomena as interconnected, as a whole. It also places Holism in direct opposition to Progressivism, which tends to compartmentalize identity instead of viewing the person as a whole system of complimentary and contradictory interrelated parts that cannot be separated from the whole. This also happens with Progressivist solutions, which tends to compartmentalize a problem without looking at the whole of the problem, the reasons their legislation or whatever didn't get through. The reason is that the system in place does not actually value progress, it values infinite growth and subjugation. We in the imperial core have a particular duty to force this backsliding country to actually move forward, by revolution rather than by petty reform.

It has been said that Holism is a feature of Diamat, which I think is a fair analysis, and goes to explain how Holism has been used in the sciences, such as psychology as Gestalt Psychology. gestalt psychology states that we, as humans, tend to recognize groups of individual objects more than separate individual objects. we will group things that look alike, that occupy a container, that are in the same general space, I mean we have these weird concepts of rooms in houses, like a Living Room has certain features for certain people. One might have a couch in a living room, a  TV, maybe a few shelves for physical media, probably some game systems and or physical media players, but we think of it as the Living Room because we have grouped these objects as being within the same area and within the same container, the walls, floor, and ceiling in the room. This tendency to group things is, I think, the rational core of Holism, and helps reinforce the idea that everything is connected.

As such, Holism and Dialectical Materialism are complementary, as Holism describes the breadth and depth of interconnection, and Dialectical Materialism describes and resolves the contradictions inherent to systems.



Holist Dialectics place a focus on the interconnectedness between conflicting ideas, and aims to resolve the contradictions that arise from holding these conflicting ideas in contrast to each-other by analyzing the parts of the whole as the interconnected system that it is, rather than as individual parts, separate from the whole. To illustrate, we shall go back to the car, because it's a relatively well-understood machine. there's a conflict between traditional gas engines and the electric motors that aim to replace them in most use-cases, at least when it comes to personal vehicles, but looking at the conceptual parts that match, of locomotion, power delivery, efficiency of transfer of energy, heat dissipation, etc, lets you see the ways in which electric motors are superior and inferior to the dominant mode it's attempting to disrupt or displace, namely, the gas engine. The advantages of the Electric drive train are that it has more efficient transfer of energy, the existence of regenerative braking (which uses the motors to recharge the battery from the act of braking,) the non-existence of RPM sweet spots, the non-existence of direct tailpipe emissions, and near-silent operation. The advantages of the Gas drive train are that it sounds cooler, gas stations are much more common than recharge stations, so they're better for long-range travel for the time being, the ease of getting maintenance due to a relative dearth of electric car mechanics, and the technology is older, and thus, better understood, for the time being.

The parts that match, as well as their binary differences and the ways in which they are superior or inferior to one another, is what makes this analysis possible. The analysis of the conceptual parts of the machine that make up its essential nature allows for a holistic view of the system's overall nature, which can then be compared with opposing modes of thought. In this case the electric motor is a rising trend, and the gas engine is dying away, so we should be choosing to support electric drive trains more than ever, yet, the lithium technology that currently runs our electric car industry relies on the exploitation of different countries, countries like Bolivia, where the Socialist leader Evo Morales was couped out right as Bolivia's "Lithium Race" picked up steam, to usher in more pillage-friendly laws for firms like the newly-founded EnergyX. This is much the same as imperial exploitation of oil, which caused coups all over the middle-east and massively destabilized countries with oil fields in them. it's hard for me to say that I would choose electric over gas right now, though I likely still would, as the exploitation of resources under imperial-capitalism means that slavery is an inevitable part of either decision. This leads me to take issue with the "green" movement, because batteries are their solution to storing power, but it has a large focus on natural gas in generation of power. Natural gas is only as natural as oil is, and will not reduce the temperature knob currently threatening to set our little ball ablaze but the "green" movement is recuperated by the industry it's attempting to disrupt, and what's needed there is a communist movement, something that can wholly ascribe itself to a Dialectical Materialist outlook.

To recap in conclusion: Holistic dialectics is a way of understanding how everything in the world is connected to each other, and how those connections can be used to understand change. Dialectical materialism is a way of understanding how the world changes through contradictions, or opposing forces. These opposing forces are interconnected as well, which is how I ended up at both positions. The internal contradictions that form the whole, the gestalt entity that appears as an interplay between the many moving parts, the material and the ideal cohabitating, not as the reduced parts, but the whole, the interplay between thoughts and actions, the interplay between ideology and material change, the interplay between what we think and who we are! the contradiction seeks resolution, as the status quo holds it steady, so we need to understand the scope of the problem, the depth and the breadth of the problem.

I aim to continue the hard work of understanding the world around us, and understanding the moving parts behind many systems of oppression and control in all their interconnectedness, so keep an eye and an ear out for more from The People's Bayonet.

So...

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:


Certainly not all at once. I've attempted, with my videos, to communicate some of that breadth and depth, and I intend on continuing on that trend. I think the starkest dialectic that exists today is the thesis of idealism, of holding the metaphysical in contrast to the physical, and the antithesis, dialectical materialism.

As we see with the Chevy Bolt, it's very possible to have a gas engine and an electric motor in the same vehicle, which allows it to charge or to use gas, but doesn't compromise in the ways that other hybrids do.

Dialectical Materialism, Idealism, and the Holistic Principle
