---
layout: post
section: wip
date: 2024-01-01
headline: In Defense of Monopoly: An Argument Against Antitrust
summary: Nationalization is Key
lindex: newsouth20
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, boy howdy, it's gonna be a spicy video!

This is part 3 in a 3 part series about antitrust, if you have not watched or listened to the other two, you should probably do that, as a lot of what I'm talking about today requires that context.

In part 1, I outline the argument that Antitrust is Ineffective in Affecting Change by going over some historic exemptions in law.
In part 2, I outline the argument that legal unions will never be revolutionary by going over the restrictions unions must comply with in antitrust law.
In this part, I will be arguing that maybe, just maybe, monopoly isn't the worst thing? Antitrust is ineffective at affecting change, as its primary motivation is increasing competition. Antitrust is also frequently used against the working people, being levied against unions and strike action since it was written, and has so many exceptions and loopholes for businesses to slip through that it's basically one big anti-union, pro-monopoly-shaped hole written into law. That's the position I'm starting from, so thank you for taking the time to contextualize yourself with the material.

so... In the title, I say the defense of monopoly, why? what's good about a monopoly? well, for one thing, integration of services and infrastructure into a fully national standard reduces waste, reduces costs, and makes more effective what already exists. or, maybe I should say that it CAN do those things, because of course, monopolies don't have much more than profit in mind, and that can lead to great things and terrible things. One of the great things that was provided by the monopoly held by AT&T was Western Union's increased abilities as it was connected to the Bell System, which lead to all new profitable services. Another was Bell Labs, which was created to harness the power of science for fun and profit, including the invention of the transistor and UNIX, both of which are pretty essential to my everyday life as a computer user, and both of which they do not own, at least not anymore.

Yet another was Western Electric's integration in making equipment to serve the bell system, including making the phones to rent to customers, but, that's the second stop on the bad things about monopolies and nationalization train. The first is how AT&T acquiesced to antitrust to avoid nationalization, got nationalized anyway, and was run so poorly that it was re-privatized at the behest of the unions. er... spoiler, I guess.

In 1912, the United Kingdom nationalized its phone services, incorporating them into the National Telephone Service, and by 1913, most nations had nationalized their phone services, which increased the pressure in the United States to nationalize OUR phone services, which was being lobbied against by AT&T, which was monopolizing the phone services at the time. They faced an antitrust lawsuit in 1913 though, forcing them to stop buying up their competitors and divest themselves of Western Union. Western Union lost its "telegraph by telephone" services and the direct link with AT&T's &T was officially broken following the Kingsbury Commitment. It remains the only telegraph service I can even think of inside the united states, and it stumbles along, losing profits every year until it's either allowed to collapse and let our telegraph network die, or be nationalized to preserve it.

In 1916, following the outbreak of World War in 1914, the Army Appropriations Act was passed, allowing federal acquisition of businesses and property, and in 1918, phones and telegraphs were nationalized under the act. Given that telephony and telegraphy were seen as natural outgrowths of the communications network built by the postal service, the Post Office assumed control of the networks and revenues while essentially leaving ownership in the hands of the capitalists. Michael Janson and Christopher Yoo write, “the takeover was more akin to a change in management, rather than a change in ownership.”

At the time, the post office was headed by a segregationist anti-union Postmaster General named Albert Burleson, who went out of his way to sabotage the operation to nationalize some part of our telephone and telegraph systems, suppressing wages, worsening working conditions, and decreasing quality of service until even the Commercial Telegrapher's Union was calling for it to be returned to private control, which it did in 1919. We had nationalized phone service for one year, and this bougie twat completely beefed it out of SPITE. That's one of the many reasons we cannot trust the owning class with nationalization, there are many examples of it turning out just as terrible as monopolization, if not worse, in intention or in negligence.

There are other times where nationalization has gone so well that public opinion was that it should be permanent, such as in the case of US Rail in 1917. So. Here's the deal. By 1917, the United States had entered the war, and needed their rail lines to be very very operational, which they very very weren't. Private control of the rail networks had left a poorly standardized jumble of poorly maintained rails with poor working conditions and poor workers, in fact, the only thing that was rich was the fact that the US paid the rail owners 3 years profits for the rail network instead of expropriating it before then spending millions of dollars upgrading and fixing the tracks, cars, engines, and stations, while increasing worker's wages and working conditions, which was all intended to make everyone happy with the prospect of nationalization. And pretty much everyone was happy with nationalization! The union folks were supporting a plan to buy the network outright, but the owning class, who had gotten to the end of their 3 years, passed the Transportation Act of 1920 and returned the rail network to the control of private industry, which had destroyed the rail networks in the first place.

I'm going to skip the second instance of AT&T facing antitrust, because vertical integration with Western Electric was ehhhhh a boring case, but in 1947, Western Electric was divested from AT&T, severing its manufacturing arm.

Flash forward to 1973, AT&T controls 90% of the phone lines in the United States, and one of the small providers, MCI, filed an integration lawsuit against AT&T alleging that AT&T was refusing to negotiate interlinking between the Bell Network and MCI's network. AT&T responded by filing 49 lawsuits against MCI in every other state in the nation, and in 1974, completely cut off MCI. MCI then complained about monopoly and triggered the final nail in the coffin of AT&T.

It was argued that AT&T's control over every operator in the country was an issue, which, I don't agree with necessarily, honestly, the problem is that it wasn't serving the public, it was serving private interests. If we had nationalized the phone service properly in 1918, we might still have it to this day, and we wouldn't have gone through the hullabaloo in 1984 I'm about to describe.

\*ahem*

AT&T's long distance networks remained under the control of AT&T, but their local networks were broken up into 7 companies, called Regional Bell Operating Companies, which were: Ameritech, Bell Atlantic, BellSouth, NYNEX, Pacific Telesis, Southwestern Bell / SBC, and US West. Then the mergers started happening.

US West eventually became Lumen Technologies after merging with Qwest and CenturyLink, we don't care about them tho. Bell Atlantic and NYNEX became Verizon and acquired GTE. SBC, however, was the hungriest of hippos, and gobbled up Pacific Telesis and Ameritech before buying AT&T, changing their name to AT&T and buying BellSouth, essentially becoming the largest, having more than doubled its net worth since the original AT&T was broken up nearly 40 years ago.

Now, why did this happen, exactly? Why can these companies not just do what the big companies do these days and refuse to compete? Like, y'all were handed control over a regional monopoly and still got bought out, what HAPPENED?

Well, that's the tendency of Imperial Capitalism.

what if I just ended the video right there? uh...

Essentially, capital, assets, wealth, tends to concentrate. We have all heard that the top 1% holds as much wealth as the bottom 50% or something wild like that, and that's the rule, not the exception. The dominant strategy in an expansionist system is to buy your competitors and never compete. Hell, it even happened in Professional Wrestling, where Vince McMahon bought out competitors and did everything he could to turn Pro Wrestling into an oligopoly, or near monopoly, all while saying he loves competition a whole bunch, but that's getting ahead of ourselves, that was 1999.

we tried to nationalize our rail services again with Conrail and AmTrak, which, I will try to summarize, but I will also be linking out to a video by Alan Fisher called "US Railroads Should be Nationalized." his video goes into the history of why these things happened, and is very very interesting.

so, following the collapse of the passenger rail industry, in 1970, AmTrak was created to take over the bankrupt and discontinued services so that passenger rail would not die. It did not take ownership, necessarily, it was more of an AT&T Nationalization situation, only, this time, it wasn't run by a spiteful postmaster general, but a bureau that is somewhat committed to providing passenger rail fairly affordably in fair conditions, which it manages to pull off, quite well, honestly. in the year 2020, it even started turning a profit, which was never the point, but it's required to operate as if it were a private business, so, it has to pretend to be interested in profit by law. AmTrak, unfortunately, has to deal with an Oligopoly in control over the rails themselves

Remember how the rails got re-privatized in 1920? well, that was starting to become a problem, as many rails were not as profitable and were getting shut down, or rail companies were going bankrupt due to the proliferation of trucking, so became Conrail in 1976. Conrail ran many of our nations rail lines as a company just like AmTrak, where it was more a change in management than in ownership. This partial nationalization lasted a whole 11 years, starting to turn a profit in 1980 before getting privatized in 1987. I fear what that pattern means for AmTrak, given the profit turning in 2020, so we'll see how that turns out, but, that leaves us with about 700 miles of nationalized track, and the rest of conrail's infrastructure is now owned by Norfolk Southern and CSX.

if we nationalized rail, we could have a well-oiled machine instead of the lumbering behemoths currently running it like a meat grinder, and amtrak could actually be a viable transportation system, and could bring us things like high speed rail without upsetting the rail companies.

but here's the rub:

Essentially, if it's managed poorly, it doesn't matter if it's public or private, it's something that needs to be addressed. Conservatives address it by privatization and monopolization. Liberals address it by antitrust and nationalization. Both of these camps consist of, are lead by, and dictate the will of the owning class. Both of these options are examples of power being thrown around by the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie, the system in which the owning class controls the machinery of state power. Under this system, nationalization is going to have the exact same problems that monopolization has, and few of its benefits, but under a dictatorship of the proletariat, the system in which the working class controls the machinery of state power, nationalization will reap many of the benefits of monopolization with fewer of the problems. Remember that, because it's important. We cannot exert our will over the owning class, including by nationalizing a monopoly or oligopoly, without power.

as I've shown in part 1, antitrust isn't going to get us there, and, in part 2, legal unions aren't going to get us there either.

we need to seize state power as well as the machinery of production to maintain our position as the rightful owners of the world: the workers who built the damn thing in the first place.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:
