---
layout: post
section: wip
date: 2024-01-01
headline: Is Antitrust Effective Against Monopoly?
summary: Antitrust, Monopoly, and Terrible Results
lindex: newsouth18
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, we have to talk about Antitrust, Unions, and Monopolies

To start, what is a business trust? this is an annoying question to answer, because it doesn't have a very quick and simple definition available to me. Instead of trying to define what a trust is, [Archives.gov uses the Standard Oil Trust as an example of a trust][OIL1] (OIL1):

"on January 2, 1882, the Standard Oil Trust was formed. Attorney Samuel Dodd of Standard Oil first had the idea of a trust. A board of trustees was set up, and all the Standard [Company] properties were placed in its hands. Every stockholder received 20 trust certificates for each share of Standard Oil stock. All the profits of the component companies were sent to the nine trustees, who determined the dividends. The nine trustees elected the directors and officers of all the component companies. This allowed Standard Oil to function as a monopoly since the nine trustees ran all the component companies."

Standard Oil was a multinational monopoly headed by as many as two (!!!) Rockefellers, which was created to control the oil industry in all of the states. This interstate control restricted interstate commerce, which wasn't a problem for about 8 years. The start of the troubles for Dodd et al was the Sherman Antitrust Act, which set off two decades of lawsuits that culminated in the trust being declared an illegal monopoly in 1911.

The Sherman Act was passed in 1890 to combat the negative effects that trusts, combines, and monopolies had on interstate commerce. It went about this by banning the combination of businesses to suppress competition, though, this ax swings both ways. the first section says that; ["Every contract, combination in the form of trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among the several States, or with foreign nations, is declared to be illegal."][SHERMAN1] (SHERMAN1) which does, in fact, include Unions.

It's not the best piece of legislation, and one of the enduring criticisms of it is the vague manner in which it's written, which allows a lot of monopoly-sized loopholes to exist. 5 years after the 1890 passage of the landmark Sherman Antitrust Act, there was a supreme court case that severely limited its efficacy and application. [United States v. E. C. Knight Co. or, the Sugar Trust Case.][SUGAR1] (SUGAR1)

In 1892, a trust similar to Standard Oil was formed called the American Sugar Refining Company. It was formed to control roughly 98% of the sugar refinement industry when it acquired E. C. Knight Company and several other refiners. The question for the courts to answer was "can antitrust can be applied to manufacture as well as distribution?" The legal answer was no, because the supreme court ruled 8-1 against punishing the American Sugar Refining Company for forming a manufacturing monopoly, stating that production is necessarily local, and cannot be regulated under an interstate antitrust law. That one court decision made the vaguely phrased antitrust law completely worthless for dealing with most monopolies.

This "local production" exception has stuck around and affected future antitrust cases like [Federal Baseball Club v National League,][MLB1] (MLB1) a case that defined Major League Baseball as it exists today, as a monopoly on professional baseball.

[The Federal League was a baseball league that was formed in 1913,][FBL1] started competing in 1914, and lasted all the way until 1915, when they were effectively strongarmed out of the market by the purchasing practices of the National League. The same Baseball Clubs that the Federal League was approaching were approached and contracted by the National League, or the NL frequently just bought the team outright. This means that the Federal League could not contract them or buy them out themselves, which lead to a dearth of teams, which lead to a death of the league.

In 1922, the Federal Baseball Club brought forth a case alleging that the National League was buying up all of the teams to shut them out of the market. The supreme court ruled that, because baseball games themselves are not interstate or international, they are not subject to the Sherman Antitrust Act, citing the earlier Sugar Trust Case's Local Production exception.

The federal law on antitrust action is broken, and it can't be fixed on a federal level, because we have decided that our federal government should not have any control whatsoever over HUGE interstate and international monopolies because they produce locally. That doesn't make any sense to me, because the company itself is not state-bound, it's a national league, dammit!

Among other rules and exceptions to rules in the history of Antitrust and Monopoly, my favorite contradiction has to be the Noerr-Pennington Doctrine. The first case started when [Noerr Motors, a Trucking company, sued Eastern Rail operators for conspiring to run an anti-trucking ad campaign that culminated in the veto of a bill deregulating trucking.][NOERR1] (NOERR1) This results in a depression of interstate and international commerce, so the lower courts decided that this was, indeed, in violation of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The supreme court overturned the ruling of the lower courts unanimously, saying that, thanks to the first amendment, businesses have the right to collectivize and petition for, and sue to enforce, regulations and laws, just like people, even if the result is anticompetitive. However, if you, for a totally random example, try to use union and corporate power to enforce regulations, reduce the output of polluting crap, and enshrine union power in an industry, you WILL be in violation of antitrust, as we see in [United Mine Workers v Pennington.][PENN1] (PENN1)

In 1965, trustees of the United Mine Workers of America Welfare and Retirement Fund sued coal partners Pennington et al for not adhering to the 1950 mining standards, including a higher minimum wage for coal employees. The partners responded by counter-claiming that United Mine Workers was colluding with multiple large coal operators to reduce competition by setting wages too high for small operators, and by making exclusive-dealing contracts with businesses to only buy union, and the court ruled in favor of the partners, and against the Trustees and United Mine Workers. United Mine Workers called to dismiss the suit, but the court ruled that, while the judgement against the trustees was set aside, the union was not exempt from antitrust for this attempt at, again, regulating the output of coal and the wages of hard working Americans. I'm only guessing this, but, the union activity might have something to do with why the court ruled in favor of the lawbreakers in the Pennington case and against the union, but not the trustees.

This quote-unquote "right" that businesses have to first amendment protections has been upheld in other such union-unfriendly cases as [Brown v Pro Football Inc.][NFL1] In 1996, there was a collective bargaining negotiation, between the owners of a group of Football Clubs, the NFL Players Association Union, and the owners of the NFL, for a new contract. The NFL presented a plan that would permit each Football Club to establish a squad of reservist players who would have a set salary, around 14 times less than the pro players, and no negotiation of salaries. The NFL refused to budge on this decision, the union refused to accept such a ludicrous deal, but the owners implemented the plan anyway. The players filed an antitrust lawsuit against Pro Football Inc, stating that they were combining their businesses in such a way as to not only discourage competition, but to circumvent collective bargaining altogether.

The District Court ruled that the owners had, indeed, violated the Sherman Antitrust Act, but the Court of Appeals reversed the decision. It was ruled that Federal labor laws shield, from antitrust attack, an agreement among several employers bargaining together to implement, after impasse, the terms of their last best good-faith wage offer.

The court called their stonewalling a "good-faith wage offer" so, that means that the NFL is essentially exempt from Antitrust Law in the negotiation process, because apparently a union of workers trying to better their working conditions and wages is anticompetitive enough to require strict regulations around what acts that unions can take, but a group of businesses getting together to eliminate wage negotiation is not anticompetitive enough to actually hold them accountable for unilaterally ignoring the working class.

Antitrust Law is built upon the principle of reducing barriers to competition. One doctrine says this is for consumer welfare, which can be simplified to mean price and quality of goods. Another doctrine says this is for the welfare of the economy as a whole, which can be simplified to mean the stability of businesses that maintain the market. For the first, consumer welfare, I think the rapidly declining quality of goods coupled with inflation and wage suppression means that's just not happening. For the second, economic welfare, I think the rapid turnover of corporate leadership, repeated bubble-and-burst events, the supply chain shortages occurring due to profit motives, like, recently many businesses have not been shipping empty containers back to where they came from, because it's not profitable to send back an empty ship, so that's also just not happening.

On top of that, I don't think either of these doctrines are being represented in the history of antitrust law, as major exceptions have been stipulated exempting everything from anticompetitive lobbying to holding 98% of a market under a holding company. This means that Antitrust is a deeply flawed legal tool that falls short of its goals on almost every level.

As I'll go on to explain in the next part in this short series, laws under capitalism are largely ineffective at redress, and completely ineffective at systemic change. The era of Legal-Unionism has come and gone, and it started with the Clayton Antitrust Act. The series of events leading to its passage and following its enforcement have left scars in the eternal struggle for the rights of workers, and the tools we once used are now tattered, broken, and rusted, and not even the right tools for the job anymore to be completely honest, so...

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[OIL1]:
[OIL1: Archives.Org on Standard Oil Trust]()

[SHERMAN1]: https://www.law.cornell.edu/uscode/text/15/1
[SHERMAN1: Sherman Antitrust Act Section 1]()

[SUGAR1]: https://sites.gsu.edu/us-constipedia/united-states-v-e-c-knight-co-1895/
[SUGAR1: United States v. E. C. Knight Co]()

[MLB1]: https://www.baseball-reference.com/bullpen/Federal_Baseball_Club_v._National_League
[MLB1: Federal Baseball Club v. National League]()

[FBL1]: https://www.baseball-reference.com/bullpen/Federal_League
[FBL1: Federal Baseball League]()


[NOERR1]: https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/365/127/
[NOERR1: Eastern Rail Conference v. Noerr Motors]()


[PENN1]: https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/381/657/
[PENN1: United Mine Workers v Pennington]()

[NFL1]: https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/518/231/
[NFL1: Brown v. Pro Football Inc.]()
