---
layout: post
section: media
date: 20--
headline:
summary:
lindex:
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small,

My friends, My family, My fellow New Southerners. I say that all the time, but what does it mean? what is a new southerner? are you a new southerner, friend? these questions will be answered in due time, my friends, all in due time.
The new south is that which will rise from the ashes of the old, we will build the new south from the ground up as the society around us collapses, we will build a new world in the cast of the flames that engulf the old, my friends we will build something beautiful if we play our cards right. Tell me now, do you feel that this society has failed you? Do you feel like you have been betrayed by the current mode of existence? Are your material fuckin conditions shit? That's what I want to know. That's where the New South begins. The new south is a nation without borders, a landless landscape, the architecture built from individuals who will say Yes when asked if they are a new southerner. Are you willing to work for the people? Are you willing to affect change? Will you fight for a government of action that fights for working families against the corrupting tendrils of the bourgeoisie? Communism's not in fashion? Paint it red and scare the fascists. Socialism failed before? So had the invaders at Troy when they burst forth from a friendly gesture to end the fight they started. Paint it red, my friends, join a union, radicalize your coworkers, be an element of change for this loose collective, and if you can, join a party as a group and take it over with advanced theory and the outstanding flame that burns within our hearts.
History has placed a burden right upon our backs, and if we join together we can mold and shape the world! the point of understanding history, the point of understanding society, the point of what we do is to change how history plays out in the moment, in the given conditions, with the given people, to drive to a society where our needs are met by the collective organ of the workers, of the mighty proletariat!
The peasants saw their masters' hand, they felt the grip of capital, the peasants of this gorgeous land, they feared imposition by capital, our peasant class did not stand for the injustices, so long as they had tools to fight them. We must give the people in the cities the task of educating their neighbors, we must give the people in the country the task of raising consciousness and educating their neighbors, we are the same, now that the erstwhile peasants have been proletarianized, they have been made into waged workers out in the fields, they have been stripped of the dignity of land and food by the wretches who own them.
It's no wonder that small towns and ex-industrial-centers are disillusioned with government, with a government that has allowed their work to go elsewhere, that has allowed these towns to go into disrepair. Most people barely trust their locals, if they trust them at all! This is why you need to get off your ass and talk to your neighbor. Be a public communicator. I want to give you a big leg up so, listen closely and don't misunderstand me: Touch. Grass. I swear it will make you a more effective communicator if you are connected to your own community. Say hi to your neighbor, please!
imagine talking to your neighbor, without lying, without dodging important questions, and without getting caught up in terms and phrases that need so much context that it shuts them down, just talking about what you think is important for a government to do and how you think society should function. or, you could be a real chad and actually do it. I'm personally working on this, but I must spread the good word about our lord and savior, The Toucher of Grass

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:
