---
layout: post
section: wip
date: 2024-01-01
headline:
summary:
lindex:
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, it's time to talk about an election! eh... kinda. I want to explain why I am not going to support someone, because it's important to have a local perspective instead of listening to the national media as they vacillate between describing the horrors the democrats allow and uncritical praise for any democrat who claims they are helping. If you can't tell, I'm kinda sick of Democratic politicians and Democratic media figures.
Speaking of which...
Stacy's Running Again, so it's time for us to look at how she's proven herself to be capable of not running Georgia into the ground under the firm choking grasp of the GOP. So, in the past few years, what, I must ask, has her organization, Fair Fight, done?
It's claimed that Fair Fight Action has registered hundreds of thousands of voters, 800 thousands of voters. This is not borne out in the data I have available to me. The best I can source this claim to is [Abrams herself saying that over 800,000 new voters have been added to the roles from 2018 to 2020,][FFA1] (FFA1) which is true. Her New Georgia Project claims to only have registered 250,000 new voters since 2014, which is honestly, a lot of fuckin' people, but it's nothing compared to the 95% of new registrants being automatically registered when they get their IDs.
This claim has been backed up by a game of bad telephone and sycophancy.
What Her Org Claims:

What Her Org Does

Stacy Claims BDS is Anti-Semitic

Acknowledges BDS is an anti-apartheid tactic

Israel is an Apartheid State that has been attempting to project the image that anything anti-israel is anti-semitic, so, something with methodological issues like BDS gets railed as anti-semitic, when there are legitimate criticisms of the BDS movement.

Complaints about demands and scope

praise over method

Stacy wouldn't look that far into it though, because, as she says "georgia is a friend of israel" \*spit*

this is even before we get to her organization's campaign contributions, like a contribution to the senate campaigns of 2 new democrats... that was not even the maximum donation, and a wild overly complicated donation to the chef's union that beefed with bernie in 2020... the ONLY donation, in fact.

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:
[FFA1]: https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/stacey-abrams-georgia/2020/11/06/b6aa285e-1e44-11eb-90dd-abd0f7086a91_story.html
[FFA1: Abrams Claims 800k New Voters Registered](https://archive.ph/ahNZN)

Trying to verify a claim made by Fair Fight Action. They said that, in Georgia Alone, they registered 800k new voters (wow!) but the roles only grew by 1-2M from 2016 to 2020, and 95% of new registrants have been automatic thanks to a 2016 law.

Any idea where that 800k is from?
