---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2022-01-15
headline: Star Power is Fake and Gay
summary: The Star System, Celebrity Culture, and The Spectacle as Hero
lindex: newsouth12
---
Ahoy hoy! I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net, comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My Friends, My Family, My Fellow New Southerners, Subscribers Big and Small, I want to talk to you about the Star System and the Spectacle, because a future video will absolutely require it.

Celebrities. you love em, you hate em, you can't seem to escape em. they're presented to us as the authorities on social life through talk shows, on taste through ads, and on... just about everything on social media. Not to mention that on Social Media, you can now be a celebrity of sorts yourself! we have cultivated a culture that glorifies celebrity, seemingly an outgrowth of individualism, the cult of the hero.  
To an extent, "celebrity" has been diluted by the massive growth of communications technologies, and "free range" celebrities who none-the-less get ad deals and survive on their celebrity status. It's important to make a distinction between a Celebrity like Ninja and a Star like Jane Goodall. Ninja can play a game... and likes Takis, but Jane perpetuates wide-spread useful ideas like "humans are the virus." both people are useful for consumerism, but someone like Ninja is not presented as an expert over life, just games. and hot chip.  
When a celebrity provides a useful message, or carries prestige, they are made into Stars, avatars of virtue and vice, and it's imperative to stress that they are made into stars BY OTHERS, traditionally the media.
What the star system essentially entails is a celebrity figure, either organic or implanted, who takes the attention, or takes the fall, for movements and moments. Stars are treated as if they have more power than they actually do. The star system shows off the deep dehumanization and alienation that capitalism enables, encourages, and exploits. this either allows the people with actual power to avoid attention, or it maintains a power structure through prestige.  
Harvey Weinstein was able to abuse that prestige to get basically anything he wanted, and anybody he wanted. I won't get into the details, but let's just say he sexually abused a bunch of people, and he was cast as Villain of the #MeToo Movement and beyond.  
Then we get the Hero Type stars who get turned into idols, embodied concepts of the larger-than-life individual with power over major events.
Alyssa Milano is a recent example. In 2006, Tarana Burke started the Me Too movement. In 2017, Alyssa tweeted out "If you’ve been sexually harassed or assaulted write ‘me too’ as a reply to this tweet." and it re-invigorated the movement. Burke is reportedly appreciative of this fact, and as such, Alyssa has been treated as a de-facto leader of the movement by the media.  
She was also chosen as a leader for the Time's Up movement, which ultimately did very little for victims, [and which disbanded after it was shown that the leadership was materially supporting Andrew Cuomo in his... sexual misconduct.][MT2] They refused to help Tara Reade in her allegations against Joe Biden, as did Alyssa, which makes her a hypocrite on top of being a charlatan star of consumption.

It also bears saying that it goes the other way, too. When one group of people idolizes a star or a hero, the anti-fandom retaliates by ... making them into a Villain, a concept of a larger-than-life individual with the power over major events, just... like, bad? and some heroes become villains, such is the nature of stardom. Harvey Weinstein and to a much lesser extent Alyssa Milano are cast as Villains now that we've seen them show their asses. The Spectacle turns people themselves into consumables, and then we get upset when the product doesn't live up to the advertising.

But how does someone achieve that Hero or Villain status, that star power? In the case of most professional environments, there are elements of pure chance that have nothing to do with skill or tenacity, but a mastery of the elements. This mastery is treated as a special attribute or a skill in itself.
in the telling of one Denise Scott Brown from her essay Room at the Top, Sexism and the Star System in Archetecture, she talks about how there are "unmeasureables" in design that lend themselves to prestige. quote:
"
I essayed my own interpretation of sexism and the star system in architecture. Budd Schulberg defines “Star Quality” as a “mysterious amalgam of self-love, vivacity, style, and sexual promise.” Though this definition catches the spirit of architectural stardom, it omits the fact that stardom is something done to a star by others. Stars cannot create themselves. Why do architects need to create stars? Because, I think, architecture deals with unmeasurables. Although architecture is both science and art, architects stand or fall in their own estimation and in that of their peers by whether they are “good designers,” and the criteria for this are ill-defined and undefinable.
" unquote
when we're dealing with an element of the unknown, humanity is known to turn to supernatural concepts like the star, the hero, the religious figure, the ritual, or the prophecy.
this is an idealist impulse, but it's one that has stuck around, even in perfectly scientifically-minded people. we say things like "good luck" to each-other, we keep people in our thoughts or our prayers, to the point that many politicians use "thoughts and prayers" to dismiss material changes that could take place in the face of a disaster they absolutely have a say in... at least officially.
You'll hear people like Gary Vaynerchuk talk about how you can succeed if you just get your mindset right and your consumption right, but he's only successful because he had an app that got popular and bought by American Express, and he got lucky with his wine vlog. [and also his parents were business owners.][GV1] (GV1) he supposedly has a bachelor's degree, but in what? we may never know, because he thinks most degrees are worthless. regardless, he's lucky, he got lucky, and he's trying to sell people on false consciousness.  
You may not think of his following as a movement or something, but, his fans listen to everything he says, and he says... a lot of things. a lot of very very dumb things I've already gone over in my video about entrepreneur inspirational instagram. so I'm not going over it again...  
okay, just one.  
Quote Clip:
"the key is to add people with optimism and cut people with negativity. it's very hard to cut people when they're the people who are the closest to you. Parents, Siblings, Spouse. But, the answer is add more people with positivity and optimism, and cut people with pessimism and cynicism. Who you surround yourself [with] matters. what content you consume, matters. Make that move. Mold, and I mean Mold your Mindset by What you Consume and with whom you Consume it." unquote

the message here is crystal fuckin' clear: "mold your mindset by what you consume, and with whom you consume it" what matters, what is material to your conditions, is consumption
that's, unfortunately, the main message with most stars of activism, stars of business, stars of movies, the message is that what and how you personally consume is materially impactful.
Stars of Consumption, as Guy Debord calls them in his piece, "The Society of The Spectacle," are people like Elon Musk, who serves as a pseudo-star as he edits his own history to build a cult of personality, or Jane Goodall, who serves as an organic star to push overpopulation messages into the public eye under the guise of Environmentalism, are manufactured images that the media attaches itself to. Quote
"
As specialists of apparent life, stars serve as superficial objects that people can identify with in order to compensate for the fragmented productive specializations that they actually live. The function of these celebrities is to act out various lifestyles or sociopolitical viewpoints in a full, totally free manner. They embody the inaccessible results of social labor by dramatizing the by-products of that labor which are magically projected above it as its ultimate goals: power and vacations- the decision-making and consumption that are at the beginning and the end of a process that is never questioned. On one hand, a governmental power may personalize itself as a pseudo-star; on the other, a star of consumption may campaign for recognition as a pseudopower over life. But the activities of these stars are not really free and they offer no real choices.
" unquote

in the case of Gary, it's the mystical power of consumption on your material success, it's Mindset, which is... a flawed interpretation of success. It's an idealist stance and ultimately has no basis in material conditions. Speaking of material conditions, back when I was doing the October Strike stuff, I said that realistic goals and a clear central message were necessary, because otherwise it goes completely off the rails, and leaves the movement vulnerable to recuperation. Someone took issue with that, and they sent me an an article from Crimeth Inc, called "Why we don't make demands." it's one of the most frustrating articles I've ever read. for one, it cites the People's Climate March as having made demands. it did not make demands, it was a straight up paper tiger with big name stars and everything.

it's pretty incredible, around 400,000 people showed up, it had such stars as Leonardo DeCaprio, Jane Goodall, Al Gore, and Bernie Sanders in attendance. this was in 2014, so bernie was less of a star, but I was aware of him at that point in time.

so, still famous, still bestowed with outsized apparent power while carrying as much power as any other senator
the actual march itself was organized to take place just before the UN Climate Summit, including ... depictions of "the dinosaurs that now make up fossil fuels" that's not what fossil... nevermind.
it was a big event, and I'm telling you nothing about the actual goals of the march because the goal seems to have been the march. 1500 organizations came together to hold the march, and at the end of the march, the climate was still collapsing, and no new policy had been decided upon.

[just a reaffirmation that we need to "act now"][NPR1] (NPR1)
clip quote
"
ROSE: Marilyn Vasta is handing out fliers in midtown Manhattan. She's part of the host committee that spent five months organizing tomorrow's march, along with more than 1,400 schools, faith groups and other organizations.
VASTA: I think if we have a massive turnout, it will really say to world leaders, people get this. You can't be a world leader if you are doing nothing about the biggest crisis this civilization has ever faced. You're not leading.
"unquote

I'm not finding any statements from the celebrities, I should be doing that, but I can't find any.
they just showed up and  marched alongside everyone else, so I guess their message was "I support this message" and the message they supported was "DO SOMETHING" which isn't a very compelling stated goal or message or demand, it's just kinda... bare minimum.  
a bare minimum that was unmet.

quote clip:
"ROSE: Moises Naim is with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. And he says most street protests don't work. He points to Occupy Wall Street as an example of a protest that had no specific demands, and therefore little concrete impact. Naim is concerned that the agenda of this Climate March is similarly vague.
NAIM: Because they are not connected with a political machine. There is a lot of energy in that street; a lot of people with a lot of passion. But in fact, they are not targeting anyone concretely because when you target everyone, you're not targeting anyone specific.
"unquote

what does it present in opposition? the riots following Freddy Grey's murder by the police, the riots that had one very clear demand: "justice for freddy grey," so that's confusing on the face of it. they're attempting to redefine "demands" as "having representatives and a central message / motive / goal" and my argument is that not having representatives or a central message / motive / goal just leaves you vulnerable to recuperation, to the twisting of radical ideas into harmless messages, into a spectacle. and what do they propose in response to my criticism?
" They Say
Doing without demands doesn’t mean ceding the space of political discourse.
Perhaps the most persuasive argument in favor of making concrete demands is that if we don’t make them, others will—hijacking the momentum of our organizing to advance their own agendas. What if, because we fail to present demands, people end up consolidating around a liberal reformist platform—or, as in many parts of Europe today, a right-wing nationalist agenda?
Certainly, this illustrates the danger of failing to express our visions of transformation to those with whom we share the streets. It is a mistake to escalate our tactics without communicating about our goals, as if all confrontation necessarily tended in the direction of liberation. In Ukraine, where the same tensions and momentum that had given rise to the Arab Spring and Occupy produced a nationalist revolution and civil war, we see how even fascists can appropriate our organizational and tactical models for their own purposes.
But this is hardly an argument to address demands to the authorities. On the contrary, if we always conceal our radical desires within a common reformist front for fear of alienating the general public, those who are impatient for real change will be all the more likely to run into the arms of nationalists and fascists, as the only ones openly seeking to challenge the status quo. We need to be explicit about what we want and how we intend to go about getting it. Not in order to force our methodology on everyone, as authoritarian organizers do, but to offer an opportunity and example to everyone else who is looking for a way forward. Not to present a demand, but because this is the opposite of a demand: we want self-determination, something no one can give us.
" unquote

essentially, they're saying "we need to have clear goals communicated to the public before we get rowdy" so... you need representatives, and a central message, motive, or goal, because if you do not choose your motives, goals, and most importantly representatives, they will be chosen for you. and the representatives will fuck up, big time, whether they're organic or implanted.

https://www.jofreeman.com/joreen/tyranny.htm Jo Freeman talks about this in her piece The Tyranny of Structurelessness, in talking about the Star System
" quote
The idea of "structurelessness" has created the "star" system. We live in a society which expects political groups to make decisions and to select people to articulate those decisions to the public at large. The press and the public do not know how to listen seriously to individual women as women; they want to know how the group feels. Only three techniques have ever been developed for establishing mass group opinion: the vote or referendum, the public opinion survey questionnaire, and the selection of group spokespeople at an appropriate meeting. The women's liberation movement has used none of these to communicate with the public. Neither the movement as a whole nor most of the multitudinous groups within it have established a means of explaining their position on various issues. But the public is conditioned to look for spokespeople.
While it has consciously not chosen spokespeople, the movement has thrown up many women who have caught the public eye for varying reasons. These women represent no particular group or established opinion; they know this and usually say so. But because there are no official spokespeople nor any decision-making body that the press can query when it wants to know the movement's position on a subject, these women are perceived as the spokespeople. Thus, whether they want to or not, whether the movement likes it or not, women of public note are put in the role of spokespeople by default.
This is one main source of the ire that is often felt toward the women who are labeled "stars." Because they were not selected by the women in the movement to represent the movement's views, they are resented when the press presumes that they speak for the movement. But as long as the movement does not select its own spokeswomen, such women will be placed in that role by the press and the public, regardless of their own desires.
" unquote

so, you need to pick your representatives wisely... or else your march might feature someone like Jane Goodall, who I've mentioned here a few times
Jane is best known for her work in conserving the lives of chimpanzees in Gombe, Tanzania, but who is less known for being an anti-humanist and malthusian depopulation advocate.

she has recently said, quote "We cannot hide away from human population growth because, you know, it underlies so many of the other problems. All these things we talk about wouldn’t be a problem if there was the size of population that there was 500 years ago." unquote which almost sounds like it could be right. If we didn't have 94% of the people here on earth, why, there'd be so many fewer problems! We wouldn't have poverty or greed or meat, as we've seen from the 1500s. It's a total prelapsarian utopia. it's the same sentiment she expressed to the Guardian a year ago: quote
https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/jan/03/jane-goodall-change-is-happening-there-are-many-ways-to-start-moving-in-the-right-way
"Now, the world’s population is estimated at over 7 billion people and it is expected to be closer to 10 billion by 2050. If we carry on with business as usual what is going to happen? To be clear, the main problem is not population growth. I have never said that, it is one of three main problems – the other two are our greedy lifestyle, our reckless burning of fossil fuels, the demand for meat, poverty ... We have to eliminate poverty. Because if people are really poor, they will destroy the environment because they have to feed themselves and their families. " unquote
so, what does she think we should do about these poors who are "destroying the environment?" well, beat them to death and burn everything down around them, of course!

https://redd-monitor.org/2018/04/06/jane-goodall-institutes-redd-project-in-tanzania-a-totalitarian-approach-to-conservation-that-led-to-increased-inequity-undermining-of-democracy-and-violent-evictions/

quote Redd-Monitor,
"
On 14 August 2012 an armed group of District Natural Resource Officers, Park Rangers and police entered Kasakati, a settlement of about 30 households near Lake Tanganyika. They were guided by men from a neighbouring village who were working as Voluntary Forest Monitors for the Jane Goodall Institute.
The armed men threatened and beat villagers, destroyed their crops, and seized valuable possessions such as chickens and tools.

“Men and women were severely beaten using sticks and a rubber inner tube,” Lord writes. Some villagers were forced to eat soap. A ten-year old boy was kicked so badly that he later died.

They ordered villagers, at gunpoint, to burn down their homes and harvest stores. The leader of the evicted village told Lord,
"I was beaten there with my wife and my children also were beaten. Thereafter, they cut all the bananas, all the palm oils, they left nothing there. There inside, there were like ten bags of this rice paddy, they burnt everything, they burnt the maize, they burnt the house, then they had nothing left."

Nine villagers were arrested. They were severely beaten, and imprisoned without medication. “Some sustained lasting physical deformation,” Lord writes. The nine villagers were subsequently taken to court. After lengthy proceedings the prosecution was unable to provide any evidence and the case was dismissed in 2013.
On 15 August 2012, another group of Forest Monitors from a different neighbouring village guided armed authorities to Mwasha, a settlement of 40 households. Again, the authorities seized possessions, destroyed crops, palm and fruit trees. They burned down homes and harvest stores. Chickens were burned inside their coups. The men living in the settlement were badly beaten. Some of them were crippled.
" unquote

these Voluntary Forest Monitors have military training, but are not permitted to carry weapons, hence why they had rangers and police in tow. if you see REDD+ on a project, assume people are being killed for that land.
good news though, by 2013, REDD+ project money for the Jane Goodall institute had dried up, but the REDD+ project kinda... lives on.  anyway, this isn't about REDD+, I already covered a lot of that in my second cryptocurrency video, so yeah, you will want to choose your representatives wisely, or you'll end up marching behind a depopulation quack in service of no particular goal for the pure spectacle of it all.  

Make sure to subscribe, and go to people's bayonet, that's peoplesbayo.net for sources and transcript as well as ways to fund this operation.  
to a working unity, my friends, solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

## Sources:

[GV1]: https://www.capitalism.com/how-gary-vaynerchuk-built-his-fortune/

[MT2]: https://goodwordnews.com/dismissal-of-staff-shutdown-of-operations-in-an-attempt-to-reset-after-the-cuomo-scandal/

[MARCH]: https://www.npr.org/2014/09/20/350083288/organizers-want-u-n-climate-march-to-be-largest-in-history
[JO1]: https://www.jofreeman.com/joreen/tyranny.htm
[JG2]: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/jan/03/jane-goodall-change-is-happening-there-are-many-ways-to-start-moving-in-the-right-way
[JG3]: https://redd-monitor.org/2018/04/06/jane-goodall-institutes-redd-project-in-tanzania-a-totalitarian-approach-to-conservation-that-led-to-increased-inequity-undermining-of-democracy-and-violent-evictions/
