---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-09-
---

##	Title
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()
[Video (-50MB .webm) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Audio (-5MB .opus) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Subtitles: (-50kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  
Afghanistan is free from our corrupting clutches,  
perhaps they will succeed,  
perhaps they'll make us watch as they live without our greed.  
Taliban, Taliban, a conflict ensued,  
and we left afghanistan, as we s'posed to.  

A Video came 'round that y'all might've seen,  
it's infuriating, it's inflammatory,  
and the person likes to piss off people like ... me?  
I think?  

[Annoying Prick]:  
gosh what a fun weekend I'm having!   

[Luna]  
I would like to address this annoying prick,  
but I also don't want to make a whole video just about them.  

[Annoying Prick]:  
if you're one of those people attacking veterans on the internet for lamenting the fall of afghanistan,  
you're a bad person!

[Luna]
I watched it,   
you may have watched it,  
but essentially,  
the claim is that people should strive to use nuance when talking about afghanistan,  
and uh... yeah, that's what I'mma do.  
Let's Get... Nuanced.  

First off... I remember 9/11 too, kinda,  
I was 10, so I can't say I remember much more than the actual attack,  
but what I have is recorded evidence of how badly Capital wanted us in Afghanistan and Iraq.  
Afghanistan's problems didn't start with us,  
they won't end with us leaving,  
but with our absence comes the absence of our corrupting, venomous, vile influence.  

Do I think the Taliban is like, good or something?  
No.  
But they're also not a force of nature.  
They're human beings.  
Human beings respond to material conditions,  
political availability of amelioration,  
and the basic desire for dignity.  
They tried to surrender, man.  
They really did.  
Like... multiple times.  

In september 2001, the Taliban government of Afghanistan negotiated with the Democratic-Republican government of America,  
and they attempted to negotiate turn-over of Osama Bin Laden,  
who had been a thorn in their sides for many more years than he had been in ours.  
We said "Give us Osama."
They said "we will try him."  
We said "No, WE will try him."  
They said "How about an external Islamic court you can trust to be impartial?"  
We said "How about give him to us? punk?"  
They said "your court system is corrupt and lacking impartiality!"  
We said "We strike at dawn."  

I'm not saying that they would've gotten a result that satisfied our bloodlust,  
but he would've been held accountable for bringing the biggest military on earth into the fold,  
and it's very likely the Afghani forces would've ejected Al Qaeda.  
It's very very likely that the Afghani government would've exiled, executed, or imprisoned Bin Laden,  
But we had to go and be the giant bullies we are and attack them with more force than they've ever seen.  
We gave them stingers to shoot down soviet gunships,  
[then we dropped daisy cutter bombs on them.][DAISY1] (DAISY1)  
[Bombs that have a peak overpressure roughly that of a tactical nuke.][DAISY2] (DAISY2)  







To explain... why I think we are the problem,  
and to finish off my thoughts about our response to 9/11,  
I want to read from a book by journalist Anand Gopal,  
No Good Men Among The Living: The Taliban, America, and the War Through an Afghan's Eyes

"
Every night the  planes would fly overhead without incident  and  disappear into  the  jagged country to the north,  
and the earth would tremble and the mountain peaks would light up,  
and his men would watch and talk about the pilots and wonder at their motives.  
It was only  after  one  bomb struck close to  their camp,  
in  a neighboring valley,  
that  they decided to  go  see  for themselves what destruction the  planes could bring.  
A group of the fighters assembled to investigate,  
but Mullah Cable opted to stay behind because his last pair of shoes had worn down to soggy rags.  
“Can you imagine?” he asked me later.  
“We were out there fighting for our country and God, and I didn’t even have shoes.”  
For days, his footwear problem had been all he could think about.

From his mountain perch, he watched his fighters drive their pickup trucks down the bluff away from the camp, then turn a corner and disappear.  
Over the radio, he heard them exchange greetings with another group of Taliban soldiers.  
At that moment, a jet shrieked past, turned sharply, and dropped a series of bombs just where they had gone.  
The explosions were massive and deafening.  
“My teeth shook,my bones shook, everything inside me shook,” he recalled.  
An enormous cloud of smoke rose above the mountains.  
All he could do was stand and watch.  
The walkie-talkie had fallen silent.  
He waited for hours for some word.  
Finally, he decided that he had no choice but to go see for himself.
He drove into the basin and turned the corner and then stepped out of the vehicle.  
Oh my God, he thought.  
There were  severed  limbs everywhere.  
He  inched closer.  
There were headless torsos and torso-less arms, cooked slivers of scalp and flayed skin.
The stones were crimson, the sand ocher from all the blood. Coal-black lumps of melted steel and plastic marked the remains of his friends’ vehicles.  
Closing his  eyes, he  steadied himself.   
In  five  years of fighting he  had  seen  his  share  of death, but  never  lives disposed of so easily, so completely, so mercilessly, in mere seconds.
“There’s one still alive!”He  looked  to  see  a  villager  coming toward  him  from  a clutch of  nearby houses.  
Inside one,  he  found his  good friend Khoday Noor.   
Mullah Cable took  his  hand.  
“Khoday Noor! Khoday Noor! Can you hear me?” Noor stared back blankly.  
His right side was paralyzed and blood was draining from a wound in his back.  
They loaded him onto a vehicle,but he died en route to the nearest town.  
“He was just a young guy, a conscript,” Mullah Cable recalled. “He had no reason to die.”

As he lay there considering the day’s events,  
he  experienced something he’d never felt before about the Taliban: doubt.  
Later that  night, news came in  over  the  radio:  
after a day’s bombardment, 880 fighters were missing across the front lines.  
Eight hundred and eighty, he thought to himself
—what kind of unimaginable power was this?
[...]
In just two days, they had suffered more losses than he’d witnessed in the previous three years.  
He needed to calm down and  think clearly.   
The  trouble was,  he  hadn’t slept since the  bombing.  
That afternoon he  retreated to  his bunker  for  a  short nap,  but  still  sleep would not  come.Instead, he  stared  at  the  ceiling for  hours.  
A  few  of  his fighters entered with rumors that whole Taliban units had defected up north.  
He said nothing.
In the evening, a message from supreme leader Mullah Omar, still  in  hiding, came by  radio:  
“The people are suffering, but this is a test we shall pass, God willing.”  
The test  was  from  God  himself, Omar said,  and  the  goal, he explained, was “martyrdom.” Mullah Cable simply couldn’t believe it.  
To defend his country he  would take  deadly risks, suffer cold mountain nights,  
go for months without his family—he would do it all,gladly, but martyrdom?  
Talk of martyrdom from a man in hiding?   
For reasons he did not fully grasp, the Americans were trying to kill him and everyone around him.  
The Northern Alliance was still trying to kill him.  
And now, he realized, his own leaders were encouraging his death.  
Then and there, he decided not to die in the service of hopeless causes.   
A thousand armies at Mullah Omar’s command could not stop a power like the Americans, not with the sort of jet he had watched eviscerate his comrades.
If his leaders were planning to abandon him to such machines, then he would abandon them first.
"

We didn't wage war on the Taliban government of Afghanistan,  
we committed unparalleled wide scale slaughter,  
amounting to years worth of casualties per day,  
and we didn't let them surrender.  
it was genocide, not war,  
regardless of your feelings about 9/11 or The Taliban.
like, I'm not a fan of the anti-soviet, reactionary, theocratic Taliban either.
however.
what we did to them without accepting surrender makes our actions a war crime,  
and this government will never be held accountable for it by anybody but the American People.  
Us.  

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*


## Sources:

[DAISY1]: https://www.globalsecurity.org/org/news/2001/011107-attack01.htm  
[DAISY1: US begins using 15,000 Pound 'Daisy Cutter' Bombs](https://archive.ph/pdAZ6)
[DAISY2]: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2001/nov/07/afghanistan.terrorism6
[DAISY2: US Begins using 'Daisy Cutter' Bombs from Vietnam War]()
