---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-04-01
---
## I Don't Want To Be Locked Down Anymore  
You too?  
No way!  
Fancy that.  
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()  
[Video (MB .webm) {Dropbox}]()  
[Audio (MB .opus) {Dropbox}]()  
[Subtitles: (kb .vtt) {Dropbox}]()  

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  

Let's talk about COVID-19, Democracy, and Lockdowns.  
The ruling class is messing up, big time, and they don't care.  


I am TIRED of being stuck at home.  
I bet you are too.  
Having to wear a mask to go into places so we don't kill each-other,  
while also having no plan for recovery,  
it drives me MAD!  
[They're threatening to get rid of unemployment protections in Montana,](01) (01)  
[They're opening up the economy bit by bit,](02) (02)
but they refuse to do what needs to be done!  
They need to shut the machine down before it grinds up more corpses,  
drains our lifeblood another ounce,  
as it tries to control our every move and destroy us one by one or in swarms alike.  

You know what?  
Break the teeth of the gears so thoroughly that the machine never starts again,  
grinding to a halt with the sound of the terrified screams of owners and their protectors,  
gummed up works with blood and bone,  
and dismantled by "unskilled labor" and scattered across the sky by smoke and flame.  
We have to shut this down, by god, without the help of government,  
Without the help of people so in the pocket of the owning class that they may as well be owners,  
and the owning class themselves, deep in contemplation about what to destroy next.  
I want people to understand that we don't have affinity with the elite owning class shitweeds,  
and those who pretend to be workers,  
but have no intention on letting a worker's movement build.
Liberalism Is Not Socialism, it is not Communism, it's Fascism with a quieter voice.  

There is no room for workers in Liberal Democracy.  
There is no room for Liberal Democracy in a just society,  
no room for owners or their class interests should be made.  
If you take the side of the working class, you are my ally.  
If you take the side of the owning class, you are mistaken.
If you are owning class and do not give up your position,  
if you do not join us workers,  
if you solidify your position that you should own the tools by which we sustain you,  
you are our enemy, and should fear for your life if you stand in our way,  
you are my enemy, and you will know that my name is the people,  
you will fall to gun, gibbet, or guillotine,  
you will fall by our hands.  

Reform is a farce, Liberal Democracy its jester,  
and anti-revolutionary thought its ultimate goal.  
"we can't just condemn the democrats!" I hear so often.
"we have to vote for them, because the alternative is worse!"  
I disagree with this assessment.  
Not because the Republicans aren't worse,  
but because the democrats are complicit in their abuses.  
They uphold a system and acquiesce in the name of "civility."  
You know what I say?  
Fuck civility.  
Fuck complacency.  
Fuck complicity.  
There are no heroes, no saviors, just us and us alone.  
Just us alone, and each-other.  

For the question "Reform or Revolution?" the answer is clear.  
The answer is Revolution.

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

[01]: https://money.yahoo.com/montana-plans-to-cancel-unemployment-benefits-161755830.html  
[01: ]()

[02]:   
[02: ]()

[03]:   
[03: ]()

[04]:   
[04: ]()

[05]:   
[05: ]()

[06]:   
[06: ]()

[07]:   
[07: ]()
