---
layout: post
section: media
date: 20--
---

##	Title
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()
[Video (-50MB .webm) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Audio (-5MB .opus) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Subtitles: (-50kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  

I curse my time in crypto, I wish it had never happened,  
but boy does a lot of my analysis of capitalism stem from my intense,  
integrated experience of the cryptocurrency world.
I remember being told that I was the only person interested in a specific mining pool's community,  
everyone else was only in the discord for commands and help, and never gave any help.  
I ended up a moderator for almost every public mining pool's discord at one point or another.  
I watched people talk about people as property,  
about "the problem with bitches / fags / n*****s / trannies,"  
about parasitic cripples,  
about Jews running everything,  
about communists destroying society,  
basically everything short of 1488.  
At that point in time, I was very much a self-described anti-fascist, I figured fascism and capitalism were separate beasts. I hadn't put it together yet, but it became very clear that what I was steeping myself in was a reactionary market, because markets are reactionary. what clicked so loudly to me back then, and what has gotten me criticism since, is that these people had no motivation to better themselves through anything but competition. They needed a death to the egregore of capital, and freedom from their compulsions, not a lecture on how they're using problematic language in pursuit of exploitative goals. They were compelled to act in service of capital, because they were told that they would be allowed to act AS capital, but nothing could be further from the truth.
The harder you work, the more you break your body and mind, the less chance you have of "success."
The people who do work their way up from abject poverty and become multi-millionaires don't tend to be the people who worked the best, but the ones who are the most competitive, cutthroat, deceitful, slanderous charlatans this side of the void.
The easiest way to get ahead is to make other people fight each-other. You start rumors, you redirect retribution onto your competitors, and you cut deals behind the scenes to drown your competitors in violations and turmoil.
It was insane watching it happen as a leader.
I was asked to intervene in a fight to make it stop, and the person who contacted me had started it and let other people fight over it.
They stirred the pot and stepped away and didn't even delete the message.
Amateur, I thought, but it kept happening with others.
the competitive nature of these crypto-miners was obscene, but it was a complete and utter joke in comparison to the competitive nature of the showrunners.
I got involved in multiple crypto startups, as a miner, and a supporter for the stated goals, and time after time after time after time the moment it hit a trading platform, the founders were not just absent, but completely vanished.
Then someone would go "he's done this before"
The Showrunners know each-other, and their goals are much more in line, than any of us were allowed to know, and the one time I got to see it as a moderator kinda broke all of my desire to participate in markets or startups or crypto ever again.
the infighting alone was bad enough, but the sniping and open embezzling within the mod area is what killed it for me.
They had no intentions on letting anybody know what was happening until the trap was already sprung and there was nothing to save, and no way out.
it wasn't even ingenious.
these people weren't smart.
they were just competitive, deceptive, and almost pathologically incapable of sympathy.
they were ruthless, and they let one guy take the fall, and the fall guy was in no way innocent, but neither were the rest of 'em.
Crypto is just a microcosm of Capitalism.
Bitcoin was supposedly created to escape from capital's grasp on capital, to avoid trading and markets, but here we are, a good 12 years later, and bitcoin just "rallied" to raise the crypto market capacity to 2 trillion US dollars.
After all the fluff NVIDIA put out about how their segregation of Graphics Cards from Mining Cards would keep Graphics Cards out of the hands of Miners, it turns out that segregation doesn't actually stop cross-over, it just delays it or slows it down.

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*
