---
layout: post
section: media
date: 20--
---

##	It's okay to fail or concede sometimes  
Failure, Compromise, and Resolve in the Face of Opportunism  
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()
[Video (-50MB .webm) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Audio (-5MB .opus) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)
[Subtitles: (-50kb .vtt) {Dropbox}](?dl=1)

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  
I see a lot of very fervently left-wing people out here,  
makin' waves,  
tryinna stand out by being perfect,  
unproblematic,  
fittin' in with the aesthetic,  
being eternally correct to the right crowd for them,  
the rest of us are left behind in reality,  
staring up at their ivory towers in the clouds,  
where everything develops under ideal conditions for radical change,  
where we don't need to make temporary concessions to succeed,  
where revolution will come easy,  
so long as we stay eternally correct.

But back here in reality,  
we have to fight on the terms of reality,  
which means approaching our ideals through the means available to us.  
There's going to be differences in principles between folks,  
especially here in the US,  
the land of intense individualism...  
That shouldn't prevent us from working together to achieve the goals we agree on,  
much the opposite, in my opinion.  
We each have our own goals,  
we have the practical motive in working with those who agree with us where it counts,  
and as long as we don't compromise on our core principles,  
we can work with people who aren't 100% on board with the program.

I make this statement of concession now,  
because we will need to be prepared to fail.  
I know, that sounds really defeatist,  
but know that every movement fails over and over until it succeeds.  
Looking through the history of revolution,  
there's nothing that kills a movement's revolutionary momentum faster than purity testing our allies.  
We will have to work with the enemy on occasion,  
but we need to do so on our terms,  
because just doing what our enemy wants us to is a bad idea,  
and because showing that we can dictate the terms of our own action is good in itself.  
No uncritical praise should be given to the political parties of the owning class,  
but we don't need to court the parties, just members within those parties.  
National Parties will spare no expense in shutting down the election of a Mayor who is nominally socialist,  
and threatening to get rid of the position of Mayor.  
Most of our work will be outside of liberal democracy,  
and we will need to work dirty,  
we can't just show our hands.  




Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*




transmisogyny, as it's supposedly defined, the specific oppressions that trans women face, which is I guess reasonable enough. If that is the case, then nobody is exempt
literally 0 people
let's talk about how many supposedly cis boys get theorized to be eggs, and how many of those people are actually trans men, and it may not be many, but it is not 0
just running through that, I show that things that affect trans women also affect other people, even if to a lesser extent, and nobody is actually fuckin' exempt unless you want to start getting granular and essentializing peoples' properties and doing the work of the TERFs for 'em
like, literally Arin Hanson
people were legit theorizing that he's secretly a trans woman and just isn't out of the closet yet
if there's any possibility that someone could mistake you for a trans woman, or if you have properties they associate with trans women, then you will be subject to the prejudices against those properties this person has, whether or not they actually think you're a trans woman
that's the whole thing about the axes of oppression
if you're a woman, you are greatly affected by the misogyny axis, and if you're trans, you're greatly affected by the transphobia axis, and if you're greatly affected by both, you're greatly affected by both
pointing at the intersection and claiming that only certain people can exist at that intersection is like pointing at a rainbow and claiming it's just red
all of these issues, these axes of oppression, have a tendency to have a mainstay when it comes to how these oppressions play out: class
people who are of the owning class can ignore many of the barriers faced by working class people of the same identity, it's frankly absurd to pretend like there's not a fundamental difference in experience there
really, if we want to work on these different axes of oppression, a large part of that will be removing the mechanism of oppression
the capital-state
so quite frankly, this talk of TrAnSmYsOgYnY eXeMpT shit is like, absolutely grating on the nerves, because we're trying to pretend like we can just call out the intersections, colonize them, and build power in the metaphysical in-between
if we ain't gettin' rid of the mechanism, if the machine that grinds up our bones for the bread of the giant is still in operation, then I don't think it really matters what dish you're being made into so much as the fact that you're about to be eaten
not sure if a jack and the beanstalk reference was necessary but there it is

I mean this is why I say bigotry is a distraction. it's not that it's not happening and not bad, it's that putting our focus on bigotry misses the fucking point: the only reason bigotry can stand is because our state and society are in agreement about what cannot be done to the "privileged" class, the owning class, and what CAN be done to the "marginal" class, the working class
everything beyond that is carved out on a case by case basis in individual court cases, and called progress when we win the right to not be raped in prison or fired for being trans or excluded from medical care
but what I would call progress is the right to not be imprisoned, the abolition of the owning class, and preventative public health programs that would leave none wanting for care
you remove the mechanism, you remove the ability for the dominant hegemonic mode to assert itself
so honestly, if we're gonna go into town, we might as well paint it red
