---
layout: post
section: media
date: 2021-04-01
---
## Why Do Liberals Hate The South?  
Class, Identity, and the Insidious Specter of Liberal-Progressivism  
[Video (High Data/Stream) {Youtube}]()  
[Video (MB .webm) {Dropbox}]()  
[Audio (MB .opus) {Dropbox}]()  
[Subtitles: (kb .vtt) {Dropbox}]()  

Ahoy hoy, I'm Luna, the People's Bayonet!  
That's peoplesbayo.net!  
Comin' at you as-live from occupied Georgia!  
My friends, my family, my fellow new southerners.  

on another, we have the people who were telling me to support the FBI after the capitol riots on 1/6.  
[The ones lead by an FBI informant... right?][08] (08)  
I'm not saying the FBI lead the riots, we will assume they were organic.  
What this does show; however, is that there was no attempt by the FBI to prevent the riots,  
and that they had a full list of names for the people involved in the riots,  
but these opportunists wanted to take this opportunity to try to get the FBI on our side.  
... the ... side of ... revolution?  
That doesn't seem sensible.  
Finally, we have the reactive elements like the NFAC and the Boogaloo Boys.  
They're big, they're scary, they came out of nowhere,  
and they're both lead by antisemitic conspiracy theories,  
but we saw the reactive element of contemporary liberalism when the NFAC were praised for standing up to the Boogaloo Boys for being white supremacist... outside of believing that hitler said they were the true israelites.

Go to People's Bayonet, that's PeoplesBayo.Net,  
for sources and transcript,  
as well as ways to fund this operation.  
To a working unity, my friends.  
Solidarity forever. ✊

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*

[01]:   
[01: ]()

[02]:   
[02: ]()

[03]:   
[03: ]()

[04]:   
[04: ]()

[05]:   
[05: ]()

[06]:   
[06: ]()

[07]:   
[07: ]()

[08]: https://www.politico.com/news/2021/03/30/proud-boys-organizer-fbi-antifa-inquiries-478456  
[08: Proud Boys Leader in 1/6 Riots was FBI Informant](https://archive.ph/CaPFx)
