---
layout: post
section: blog
date: 2021-03-16
---

## Neoliberal Core Rot  
"Welcome to The Imperial Core,  
how may I take your orders, sir?"

It pains me to say that I come to you today under less than happy circumstances.  
A member of the collective has fallen to the mob, and the mob is not yet satisfied.  
The mob is hungry, angry, and misguided.  
And it seems to wrap itself in the banner of justice.  

Retribution is not justice.  
Redemption is.  

Vengeance-seeking and role playing as the cops is not how you "root out abuse,"  
it's how you alienate your community from itself.  
Making people who cannot defend themselves apologize,  
and then rejecting that apology,  
makes you a bully,  
not a savior.  

Criminalizing neurodivergent behavior,  
criminalizing social awkwardness,  
exiling someone because they made others "uncomfortable,"  
publicly shaming minor infractions,  
for the "Future of the Scene,"  
ensures there will be no future for that scene.

I don't know who struck first,  
I don't know who was struck,  
All I know is that there are bodies everywhere,  
and eyes that glow back at me look...  
concerned,  
scared,  
anxious,  
it's fear that drives the witch hunt onwards,  
for justice is absent.

The core rot has begun to show itself at the surface,  
and no individual exists to take responsibility for the damage.  
The systemic damage.
The damage to the infrastructures of social interaction,  
friendship, camaraderie, acquaintance,  
all abandoned in favor of one descriptor:
"abuser."

The definitions don't seem consistent.
The "crimes" don't seem equal.  
People who have sexually assaulted others and refused to accept responsibility,  
People who sexually harassed others under the influence and accepted responsibility,  
People who weren't aware they were making anybody uncomfortable with attempts at friendly banter,  
People who tried to help,  
all marked "Abusive."

Suppressive Persons.

Fair Game.

If you have done any look into how cults form,  
how they behave,  
how they enforce inconsistent rules and punishments,  
you will have come across the these concepts in Scientology as well as many other cults.  

The Online Left has a tarnished surface because the imperial core rot has persisted within.  
There will be no solace until the witch hunts stop.  
There will be no justice until people who abuse others are held to account,  
not in public, but with redemption through rehabilitation.  
There will be no peace for the abused until the abusers can no longer accuse their victims of abuse.  
There will be no more community if we don't fight back, so we need to fight back.  

*-- Luna Lockhart, 2021*
