---
layout: post
section: blog
date: 2021-02-21
---

## On Unity  
If the owning class don't want us against them, let them divest.  
No matter who we are, we must  learn to forget our differences.  
If we have them, let us differ in the closet; when we come out in front,   
let us not have anything to argue about until we get finished with the owners.  

If the late President Kennedy could get together with Khrushchev and exchange some wheat,  
we certainly have more in common with each other than Kennedy and Khrushchev had with each other.  
If we don't do something real soon, I think you'll have to agree  
that we're going to be forced either to use the ballot or the bullet.
It's one or the other.  
It isn't that time is running out -- time has run out!  
Every year politicians will be in the so-called Minority Communities jiving you and me for some votes.  
Every year the political crooks will be right back in your and my community with their false promises,  
building up our hopes for a letdown, with their trickery and their treachery,  
with their false promises which they don't intend to keep.  
As they nourish these dissatisfactions, it can only lead to one thing, an explosion;  
and now we have the type of person who just doesn't intend to turn the other cheek any longer.

Rest in Power, brother Malcolm.  
assassinated February 21st 1965 by this government.

On February 21st 2021, following the passing of black former New York City police officer Raymond A Wood (Ray),  
his confession of "actions that, in hindsight,  
were deplorable and detrimental to the advancement of his own black people"  
between 1964 and 1971 made in 2011 was unsealed.  
Worrying that his death would remove justice for Thomas Johnson,  
who was wrongly convicted of assassinating Malcom X,  
he wrote a confession to be released upon his death.

The Facts are as follows.

April 17, 1964, Ray was hired by the New York City police department.  
Without training, he was immediately assigned to the BOSSI (Bureau of Special Services and Investigation) unit.

His job was to infiltrate civil rights organizations throughout New York City,  
to find evidence of criminal activity, so the FBI could discredit and arrest its leaders.

After witnessing repeated brutality at the hands of his coworkers (Police), he tried to resign.  
Instead he was threatened with arrest by pinning marijuana and alcohol trafficking charges  
on him if he did not follow through with the assignments.

Under the direction of his handlers,  
he was told to encourage leaders and members of civil rights groups to commit felonious acts.

The Statue of Liberty bombing idea was created by his supervisor/handler.  
Using surveillance, the agency learned that Bowe and Sayyed  
were key players in Malcom X's crowd control security detail.  
It was Ray's assignment to draw the two men into a felonious federal crime,  
so that they could be arrested by the FBI and kept away from managing  
Malcom X's Audubon Ballroom door security on February 21st, 1965.  
On February 16th, 1965, The Statue of Liberty plot was carried out  
and the men were arrested just days before the assassination of Malcom.  
At the time, Ray was not aware that Malcom X was the target.

On February 21st, 1965, Ray was ordered to be at the Audubon Ballroom,  
where he was identified by witnesses while leaving the scene.  
Thomas Johnson was later arrested and wrongfully convicted to protect his cover  
and the secrets of the FBI and NYPD.

Ray placed his full confession into the care of his cousin, Reginald Wood Jr.,  
and requested the information be held until his passing


Press Conference: "Press Conference with Reggie Wood and Malcolm X’s 3 Daughters.   
New Evidence revealed that the NYPD and the FBI conspired to assassinate Malcolm X."  
[(via attourneycrump on Instagram)](https://www.instagram.com/tv/CLhmmwAj3vK/)  

Release: "BREAKING: Today the daughters of Malcolm X held a press conference  
to release the confession letter they received from NYPD agent, Ray Wood.  
In the letter he admits to assisting the NYPD & FBI in the orchestrated murder of Malcolm X."  
[(Via MXGMNational on Twitter)](https://twitter.com/MXGMNational/status/1363283493078372352/photo/1)  & [Archived](https://archive.vn/bWRW8)
