---
layout: post
section: blog
date: 20-01-01
---

## Mission Statement for the Evermore Banner  
the point of this channel, so people know when they come in,  
is to build the reading list for the organizations we wish to build under the Evermore banner.  
Evermore is going to be a strategy to bring us to a revolution for the united coalitions of workers that will arise.
Trade-Unionism, or Syndicalism,  
is a useful strategy for organizing workers and getting them to work together towards a common goal.  
This is good.  
We want people to understand organization and working for a common goal,  
regardless of personal squabbles and the actions of men, long dead,  
for the workers must be willing to work with us.
The spontaneity of the strike, the goal of the general strike,  
must be backed with a strong theoretical framework,  
otherwise there will be defections, there will be disintegration,  
and there will be failure in the long run.
We need that strong theoretical backbone if we are going to have the demands we want to make through syndicalism,  
and through other strategies,  
because the theory is what we need to maintain in constancy, rather than praxis.
Praxis based on a strong theoretical framework is much more likely to succeed,  
and learning from history shows us this,  
as successful rebellions and revolutions across the globe are carried out by dedicated members of a revolutionary organization who are not afraid of theory.
The Intelligencia, the people of higher economic standards,  
those who have the time to read tomes of theory,  
as well as those Workers of lower economic standards who deem the task worthy of the work past the working day,  
must be educated on the theory we wish to promote and work by.  
These readers, the Intelligencia and the Worker-Theorists must theorize together,  
but as the theory must come from "on high" as some see it, it can reek of the proscribed,  
and as such must be communicated from the readers to the workers using their language rather than the language of mid-high income educated folks,  
who tend to be of the bourgeoisie or the capital class.
Our plan of action, in this moment, is to find protests, once they begin again, and pass out fliers,  
we need more than one Evermore Banner Group,  
we will need to break through the anti-theorist line,  
and try to get people to listen to us, and to give us their time,  
their names, and their contact information.  
Those who are deemed by the readers to be interested enough in theory to partake in our specific reading list and mission statement will become reader-students,  
and after they have absorbed what will be done, they will be of the readers.  
As organized, readers will be the "high council" if you will,  
where the democracy of the council determines what actions must be carried out to achieve the goals laid out in the theory and mission statement we have constructed.
I have a feeling I will personally disagree with many Evermorians, but that is okay,  
I do not need people to be in complete agreement with me,  
so long as they do not revise the goals and ambitions of the Evermore Banner  
The "High Council" the Evermorian Readers,  
will be organized through the principle of Democratic Centralism,  
the most effective strategy yet theorized, incarnated, and carried out, time and time again.  
Once the Evermorians have come to a decision,  
once the democracy has been carried out within,  
the Evermorians must carry out that decision without,  
regardless of if they disagreed with it within.  
I'm still coming up with terminology and "rankings" but a lot of the language I can use is specifically overtly hierarchical, due to english's obsession with hierarchy.
The Evermorian Students, the readers-to-be, do not have a vote,  
but they can observe the actions of the Evermorian Council silently,  
so they can learn what happens here,  
and the Evermorian Councilmembers are organized somewhat horizontally.  
Seniority of how long one has been in the organization will be considered,  
but not for the reasons of ranking,  
simply for the reasons of rooting out bad faith arguments and revisionism,  
as well as expelling rats, moles, and snakes.
Recruitment of Readers must take place,  
and any who leave must be replaced.  
The size of the Council must be proportional to the Evermorian Agents,  
who will fly the Evermorian Banner under instruction from their Local Council.  
Agents may become readers,  
Readers may become Agents,  
but the structure in place will be for the Council to decide and for the Agents to act alongside the Council.
My job, as a part of a semi-centralized movement,  
is as a keeper of theory and propagandist to the masses,  
by ink on paper, pulses of light in glass pipes,  
radio waves through the air, and electrons in copper cables,  
the work will be carried out, and I hope others who share my ambitions will take up the mantle as I have,  
for there are no Great Men, there are no Heroes,  
and I alone am not the authority on revolution,  
I just know it needs to be done
This foreword will be kept in mind as a student becomes a reader,  
as will the principles of the group:  
No Snitching  
No Fighting  
No Revising  
Revolution is the Answer  
and  
Violence isn't the worst thing in the world.  

*-Luna Lockhart 2021*
